
Yoda
Biographical information
Born
896 BBY[1]
Died
4 ABY, Dagobah[2]
Physical description
Species
Yoda's species[3]
Gender
Male[2]
Height
0.66 meters[2]
Mass
13 kilograms[4]
Hair color
White[5]
Eye color
Green-gold[6]
Skin color
Green[5]
Chronological and political information
Affiliation(s)
Jedi Order[5]
Jedi High Council[7]
Galactic Republic[7]
Republic military[8]
Grand Army of the Republic[8]
Masters
Unidentified Jedi (Jedi master)[4]
Garro (stonepower master)[9]
Qui-Gon Jinn (as Force spirit)[8]
Apprentices
Dooku (Padawan)[10]
Obi-Wan Kenobi[5]
Ezra Bridger (informal Jedi apprentice)[11]
Luke Skywalker[5]
[Source]
"Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hmm? No. And well you should not. For my ally is the Force, and a powerful ally it is."
―Yoda, to Luke Skywalker[src]
Yoda, a male member of a mysterious species, was a revered Jedi Master who served as the Grand Master of the Jedi Order in the waning days of the Galactic Republic. He was renowned within the Order for his wisdom, powers of the Force, and lightsaber combat, and he lived for nearly 900 years. His time during the last days of the Jedi Order and beyond made him a consequential figure in galactic history.

Yoda sat on the Jedi High Council. During the Invasion of Naboo, Master Qui-Gon Jinn presented a young slave boy, Anakin Skywalker. Qui-Gon professed his belief that Skywalker was the Chosen One who would bring balance to the Force. At the same time, it was discovered that the Sith, the age-old enemies of the Jedi, had not gone extinct as the Jedi believed they had. Against Yoda's advice, the Jedi Council agreed that Obi-Wan Kenobi, who became a Jedi Knight after the death of his master, Jinn, could train Skywalker as a Jedi. Ten years later, Yoda presided over the Jedi Order as the Republic found itself on the road to war with the Confederacy of Independent Systems, led by Yoda's former apprentice, the fallen Jedi Count Dooku. Yoda led a clone army that had been secretly built for the Republic to Geonosis to save Kenobi, Skywalker, and Senator Padmé Amidala from Separatist captivity, and the ensuing battle—in which Yoda fought his former apprentice and forced the count to flee—sparked the Clone Wars between the Republic and the Separatists.
The Jedi Council took over leadership of the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars, making Yoda one of the leading Jedi Generals. He personally fought in some engagements in the war, including a battle with the Sith acolyte Asajj Ventress and her Separatist forces on Rugosa, but mostly commanded troops from afar. Towards the end of the war, Yoda was contacted by the spirit of the long-dead Qui-Gon Jinn, who told him that, contrary to Jedi teaching, it was possible to maintain one's consciousness after death. Yoda went on a spiritual journey where he underwent a series of trials, put forward by a group of mysterious Force Priestesses, to determine whether he was worthy to learn the secrets of immortality. This journey brought him to the world powerful with the Force, as well as Moraband, the ancient homeworld of the Sith. Yoda was deemed worthy, and Jinn began to teach him how to unlock this ancient and forgotten power.
As the Clone Wars came to an end, it was discovered that Supreme Chancellor Palpatine was, in truth, the Dark Lord of the Sith known as Darth Sidious, who the Jedi Council had been searching for ever since the Battle of Geonosis. When Yoda was commanding troops during the Battle of Kashyyyk, members of the Jedi Council attempted to arrest the chancellor, but Sidious struck them down and seduced Skywalker, now Darth Vader, to the dark side of the Force. This sparked the fall of the Jedi Order, with clone troopers across the galaxy given the command to kill their Jedi Generals. Yoda survived the attempted execution and escaped from Kashyyyk. Along with Kenobi, he became one of the few survivors of the fall of the Jedi Order, and he witnessed Sidious transform the Republic into the Galactic Empire. Yoda attempted to confront and defeat the Emperor, but Yoda was forced to retreat. After the secret birth of Vader's twins, Luke Skywalker and Leia Organa, Yoda helped arrange for the children to be hidden from their father and then went into exile on Dagobah.
Yoda remained in exile for over two decades. During his exile, he watched from afar as other Jedi survivors continued to operate throughout the galaxy, giving guidance to Jedi such as Kanan Jarrus and his Padawan, Ezra Bridger. During the Galactic Civil War, Luke Skywalker came to Dagobah at the urging of Kenobi, who had been struck down by Vader but used the secrets also given to him by Qui-Gon Jinn to retain his consciousness. Yoda was reluctant to train the boy, but he began to instruct him in the ways of the Jedi. Luke left Dagobah in order to save his friends on Cloud City, but he returned many months later to complete his training. By that time, Yoda had fallen ill and was near-death, but he lived long enough to confirm a truth that Luke had learned on Cloud City: Darth Vader was his father. Yoda uttered his final words, that there was another Skywalker—Leia—and slipped away into the Force. He appeared as a spirit, alongside the spirits of Kenobi and a redeemed Anakin Skywalker, after the Alliance to Restore the Republic defeated the Emperor and emerged victorious in the Battle of Endor.
After Yoda's death, Luke fulfilled his master's dying wish: to pass on what he had learned to a new generation of Jedi. Luke's attempt to restore the Jedi Order failed, however, when his nephew, Ben, fell to the dark side and destroyed the new generation of Jedi. Luke went into exile, but a young Force-sensitive scavenger named Rey later found herself on a quest to find the legendary Jedi Master and bring him back into the fight against the dark side. During her quest, she had a vision of the past and heard Yoda's voice in it, saying that the Force was a powerful energy that surrounded all life in the galaxy.
Contents[show]
Biography
Pre-Invasion of Naboo
Born 900 years before the Battle of Endor,[1] Yoda belonged to an ancient and mysterious species.[3] As he was keenly attuned to the Force, he joined the Jedi Order as a youngling. After undergoing the ritual known as the Gathering, he received his kyber crystal, and Professor Huyang helped him construct his first lightsaber aboard the Crucible.[12][13] Thereafter, Yoda was paired up with a personal mentor. During their time together, Yoda's Jedi Master told him the tale of K'ungfu and Chuang, two great Jedi of the past.[4] Around the age of 100, Yoda was ready to pass on what he had learned. Having attained the rank of Master, he would spend the next eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Jedi.[2] It was estimated that over his lifetime, he trained around 20,000 Jedi.[14]

Centuries later, Yoda would take on the human Dooku as his last known padawan in the era of the Galactic Republic.[10] During one mission to the Wookiee homeworld of Kashyyyk, the padawan witnessed his master face off with a giant, dreadful terentatek.[15]
Yoda would visit Kashyyyk on several other occasions prior to the Battle of Kashyyyk, serving as Jedi negotiator in many incidents involving the Wookiees and their Trandoshan neighbors. This earned him the ancient title of "Defender of the Home Tree", as well as becoming a member of many Wookiee leaders' and all the inhabitants of Kachirho's honour families.[16]
Yoda also taught outside the Master/Padawan relationship, and trained all the Jedi Younglings prior to their teaming up with Jedi Masters,[17] including Master Obi-Wan Kenobi.[18] Kanan Jarrus, as Caleb Dume, often heard Yoda counsel "Do, or do not. There is no try."[19] He also taught groups of younglings in the basics of Jedi training, including lightsaber instruction.[10][20]
Invasion of Naboo
"There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Sith."
"Always two, there are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice."
"But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?"
―Mace Windu and Yoda, about Darth Maul — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Yoda Episode I Canon
Yoda during the Naboo crisis.
During the invasion of the planet Naboo by the Trade Federation, Yoda served on the Jedi Council[7] as the Grand Master of the Jedi Order, having trained Jedi students for about 800 years.[2] He was present when Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn presented Anakin Skywalker, a young slave boy from the planet Tatooine, to the Council in the hopes of training him. Although Jinn believed Skywalker to be the Chosen One, prophesized to bring balance to the Force, Yoda and the other Council members did not share his opinion, sensing an uncertain future and a high amount of fear in the boy, and refused to grant permission.[7]

After Jinn and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, returned to Naboo, they forged an alliance between the Human inhabitants of the world and the native species in order to combat the Federation occupation forces. The Federation's droid army was eventually deactivated after the accidental destruction of its command ship by Anakin Skywalker. During the battle, however, Jinn and Kenobi dueled a dark side Force user[7]—Darth Maul, the Dathomirian Zabrak[21] apprentice of the Sith Lord Darth Sidious—which cost Jinn his life. Yoda, along with other members of the Council, was present at the Naboo victory parade and Jinn's earlier funeral, sharing his thoughts on the apparent reemergence of the Sith with fellow Master of the Order Mace Windu and pointing out[7] that the Rule of Two, the Sith succession system in effect at the time,[22] meant that another Sith was still present. Unbeknownst to the two Jedi, the remaining Sith was Sheev Palpatine, the Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Republic, having been sworn in after a Vote of No Confidence forced his predecessor Valorum to resign.[7]
With Jinn dead, following the events on Naboo, the Council named Jinn's former Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi a Jedi Knight, who informed Yoda of his master's final will—that Skywalker be trained. Reluctantly, Yoda permitted him to take the boy as his Padawan.[7]
The Clone Wars
Onset of the war
"Master Yoda, do you think it will really come to war?"
"Hmmm. The dark side clouds everything. Impossible to see, the future is."
―Palpatine and Yoda[src]
FiveFamousJediContinueToFailToDetectTheSith-AotC
Yoda on the eve of the Clone Wars.
Ten years after the Naboo crisis, several thousand systems,[10] disillusioned by heavy taxation, seceded from the Galactic Republic and formed the Confederacy of Independent Systems under the leadership of Count Dooku,[23] a former student of Yoda[10] who left the Order due to widespread corruption in the Republic.[24] As the Galactic Senate, the chief governing body of the Republic,[25] debated the creation of a standing army, an unsuccessful attempt was made on the life of Senator Amidala of Naboo. After Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Padawan Anakin Skywalker cornered the assassin, the killer was in turn killed by a mysterious person who escaped using his jetpack. The events prompted the Council, which included Yoda, to appoint Kenobi to track him down.[10]

Kenobi's investigation led him to attempt to find the planet Kamino, whose location had been missing from the Jedi Archives, alarming Yoda, since only a Jedi could have erased the files. Interrupting a training session with the Bear Clan, Yoda helped Kenobi pinpoint the world's exact location through meditation, allowing the latter to travel there.[10]
Following Kenobi's departure, Yoda experienced a vision while meditating, in which he heard the voice of the spirit of Qui-Gon Jinn, and sensed that Anakin Skywalker was in terrible pain. He discussed the vision with fellow Master Mace Windu afterwards.[10]
Having arrived on Kamino, Kenobi reported that the Kaminoan cloners had created a clone army, the order for which had been placed by Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas,[10] who had perished around the time of the Invasion of Naboo.[26] Kenobi believed that the template used to create the army, bounty hunter Jango Fett, was the person involved in the attack on Amidala. After a brief encounter with Fett, Kenobi followed him to the planet Geonosis, where he found that Dooku's Separatists ordered the assassination attempt on Amidala and had constructed a droid army. After relaying the information to the Jedi Council, Kenobi was captured and scheduled for execution, later joined by Amidala and Anakin Skywalker.[10]
Battle of Geonosis
"The shroud of the dark side has fallen. Begun, the Clone War has."
―Master Yoda[src]
Yoda1280
Yoda duels his former apprentice Dooku on Geonosis.
News of Skywalker's and Kenobi's capture prompted the Council to dispatch a Jedi strike team to Geonosis, while Yoda headed to Kamino to take command of the clone forces. As the strike team interrupted the execution of Kenobi and his associates, suffering casualties at the hands of the numerically superior Confederate battle droid forces, Yoda led the clones into battle, thus beginning a galaxywide conflict that would become known as the Clone Wars.[10]

As the clones engaged the Confederacy's forces in a massive battle, Yoda headed to rescue Kenobi and Skywalker from Dooku, who had incapacitated the duo in a duel. The diminutive Jedi Master repelled Dooku's telekinetic assault and Force lightning, and then engaged in a brief but intense duel. Dooku realized that he could not best Yoda and telekinetically destabilized a large metal pillar, forcing Yoda to break off the duel and use his own powers to stop it from crushing Obi-Wan and Anakin. Dooku used the distraction to flee aboard his personal craft. Although the battle on Geonosis ended in the Republic's favor, Yoda was concerned about the growing influence of the dark side of the Force and the outcome of the Clone Wars.[10]
Mentoring Anakin Skywalker
As the Clone Wars progressed, Yoda decided to alleviate Jedi Knight Anakin Skywalker's fear and inability to lose loved ones by assigning him a Padawan learner, Ahsoka Tano. He believed that by becoming a teacher, Skywalker would develop emotionally and that when the time came for Tano to go off on her own, he would understand that his excessive bonding to those he cared about was unnecessary.[2] Tano traveled to the planet of Christophsis, where she presented herself to Skywalker in the midst of a battle against Confederate forces.[27]

After the battle had concluded, Yoda himself arrived on the planet and assigned the duo to the task of finding Rotta,[27] the son of influential Hutt crime lord Jabba, who had been kidnapped as part of a plan arranged by his uncle Ziro to alienate the Hutts and the Jedi and drag the former into war.[28] After the two Jedi successfully completed the mission, Yoda, along with a group of clones, extracted them from the planet Tatooine.[27]
Mission to Rugosa
Ventress: "If Yoda is indeed the Jedi warrior you believe he is, let him prove it. Allow me to send my best troops to capture him. If he escapes, join the Republic. But should my droids defeat Yoda, consider an alliance with the Separatists."
Katuunko: "I did not request Yoda's presence here to test him in battle."
Yoda: "Accept the challenge I do, Your Highness. Arrive by nightfall, I will."
―Asajj Ventress challenges Yoda for a competition; Yoda accepts — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
TeamRepublic-Ambush
Yoda with clone troopers on Rugosa.
Some time later, Yoda, along with an escort of clone troopers, was sent to the neutral coral moon Rugosa to negotiate the construction of a Republic base on Toydarian territory with the incumbent monarch, King Katuunko. Simultaneously, the Confederacy dispatched Asajj Ventress,[29] an assassin trained by Confederate leader Dooku,[30] to the moon with droid escort to pressure Katuunko into siding with the Separatists.[29]

Yoda's starship was ambushed by two Confederate vessels upon arriving into the system, forcing him to use an escape pod to land on the surface of the moon, accompanied by three clone troopers. The Jedi then successfully made contact with the Toydarian delegation, prompting Ventress, who was at the king's location, to challenge Yoda: if he could defeat her droid units, Toydaria would join the Republic, but a defeat would result in the planet pledging its allegiance to the Confederacy. The Jedi accepted, and Katuunko requested that he be given a fair fight, which Ventress did not intend to honor.[29]
Encountering the droids, Yoda destroyed a squad of them by himself without using his lightsaber, and returned to assist his clone companions, until the arrival of droidekas forced them to flee. The Jedi covered their escape by deflecting the droids' blaster fire at a nearby rock formation that collapsed and crushed them, after which he and the clones retreated to a nearby cave to rest. In the cave, Yoda relaxed into his natural role as a teacher. Calling each clone by name, he raised their morale by lecturing them on their individuality in the Force.[29]
Upon hearing the sound of more approaching Confederate units, Yoda and his escort left the cave. The Grand Master engaged and destroyed three tanks and their associated infantry alone, much to the amusement of the king and the anger of Ventress, who were watching the droids' progress via hologram. Breaking the terms of the competition, the assassin sent in droidekas to take out Yoda, which the clones prevented by launching their final rocket that caused the enemy to be buried under a rock slide.[29]
The Malevolence crisis
Ahsoka speaks out
Yoda and Windu confer with Ahsoka Tano, who was adamant on rescuing Koon.
As the war progressed, the Confederacy developed the Malevolence, a heavy cruiser designed to incapacitate and destroy Republic vessels with its mammoth ion cannons, which proceeded to destroy dozens of ships without leaving survivors.[31] The Jedi Council dispatched Jedi Master Plo Koon to track down the superweapon, but upon locating it, his fleet was ambushed and destroyed by the starship. Although Koon and some clones survived in an escape pod, Yoda, alongside fellow Jedi Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi, forbade Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano to search the system for survivors, citing the threat posed by the Malevolence. Skywalker and Tano, however, disregarded his warnings and successfully rescued Koon.[32] The Malevolence was later destroyed by a concerted Republic assault.[33]

Gunray's capture
Some time after the destruction of the Malevolence, Trade Federation Viceroy Nute Gunray was captured by the Republic on the planet of Rodia, but as he was being transported to Coruscant aboard the cruiser Tranquility by Jedi Master Luminara Unduli and Ahsoka Tano, a Separatist boarding party led by Asajj Ventress freed the prisoner. Unduli and Tano subsequently reported the loss of Gunray to Anakin Skywalker and Yoda.[34]

Attack on the Jedi Temple
Epguide520
Ahsoka Tano speaks to the Jedi Council
During the peak of the war, Barriss Offee with the help of Letta Turmond bombed the Jedi Temple on Coruscant. Yoda then ordered Anakin Skywalker and his Padawan Ahsoka Tano to return from Cato Neimoidia to help investigate, refusing to trust anyone who was in the temple during the bombing. Yoda's judgement was clouded, but he still guided the Jedi as the leader of the Council.[35]

Turmond was captured by Skywalker and Tano. In prison, she requested Tano speak with her, saying Tano was the only one she could trust. When Turmond was strangled to death via the Force and several clones were murdered by a lightsaber, Wilhuff Tarkin, who was serving as an admiral in the Republic Army, had Tano arrested, accusing her of being the mastermind responsible for the attack. Desperate to prove her innocence, Tano escaped the prison, resulting in a manhunt led by Anakin Skywalker and Captain Rex. During the chase, Tano lost her shoto-style lightsaber and escaped.[36]
After Tano alluded her master and fled to the Underworld, Yoda ordered Skywalker and Plo Koon to track her down and bring her to the temple. Tano was quickly captured by Asajj Ventress, who agreed to help the young Padawan in exchange for a pardon for Ventress' crimes as a Sith. Tano contacted Barriss Offee at the Jedi temple. Offee led Tano into a trap by telling her she could find evidence to prove her innocence by going to a warehouse on Level 1315. There, Offee jumped Ventress, stealing her lightsabers and mask. She attacked Tano, knocking her out in front of crates of Nanodroids and effectively framing her for the bombing.[37]
Tano was eventually brought back to the Temple, where Yoda and the rest of the Jedi Council reluctantly agreed to expel her from the Jedi Order and have her face a military tribunal before the Senate. Yoda, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Plo Koon and several other Council members were present in the court room, where Tano was prosecuted by Tarkin and defended by Padme Amidala. However, before the jury could render its decision, Skywalker burst in with Barriss Offee, who confessed to being responsible for the bombings and the framing of Tano. In light of this revelation, Yoda and the Council personally invited Tano to rejoin the Order, but she rejected and left. Yoda would regret the Council's decision and began to question the doctrine of the war.[38]
Uncovering The Truth
Yoda Speaking To The Council
Yoda speaks with the Council about Tup
Prior to the start of the war, Palpatine and his apprentice, Count Dooku secretly created the Clone Army with the assistance of an unsuspecting Sifo-Dyas, who had seen visions of a conflict beforehand. When this was done, they had organic Inhibitor Chips implanted in their brains. which caused the clones to do anything Palpatine told them to, in this case execute the Jedi. With one simple command, the clones would enter a trance-like state and perform whatever orders they were given.[39]

During the Battle of Ringo Vinda, Clone Trooper Tup murdered Jedi Master Tiplar when his inhibitor chip was activated prematurely. Sidious ordered Dooku to apprehend Tup to prevent the Jedi from discovering the truth. Tup was eventually sent to Kamino after Anakin Skywalker, Captain Rex and ARC trooper Fives were able to recover Tup from a Separatist Transport.[40]
After escorting Tup to Kamino, Fives and Rex were greeted by Jedi Master Shaak Ti, alongside the main developer of the clones, Kaminoan scientist Nala Se. Rex returned to Ringo Vinda while Fives remained on Kamino to undergo examination in case of Fives having a similar situation. Disputes over the tests led to a debate. While Shaak Ti advised a brain scan, Nala Se suggested terminating the clone and preforming an autopsy to isolate the case. Shaak Ti contacted the Jedi Temple where Yoda, alongside Obi-Wan Kenobi, decided Tup should be brought to the temple to be examined through the Force.[39]
What the Jedi were unaware of was that the Kaminoans knew of the inhibitor chips and were working with Count Dooku, who used his Sith name, Tyrannus, to prevent the Jedi from making the connection. Dooku ordered that Tup be terminated and that the chip be sent to him to be looked at. [39]
Angry at Nala Se and Master Ti for their treatment of Tup, Fives escaped the medical center and embarked on his own plan. Fives faked leaving the planet, but stayed to try and save Tup and discover the truth. He and the medical droid AZI-3 were able to preform a brain scan on Tup, where they learned of the inhibitor chips. Fives had the droid take the chip out of his and Tup's brains. Unfortunately, the already-weakened Tup died soon after the operation, whispering his last words to Fives.[39] Fives blamed Nala Se for what happened to Tup. Suspecting the Kaminoans of treachery, and with the support of Master Ti, Fives insisted on presenting his evidence and the removed chips directly to Palpatine. Fives was eventually brought to Coruscant, at the request of Shaak Ti, where he was brought before the Chancellor. As the ship landed, Nala Se drugged Fives, causing him to act strange.[41]
When Fives attempted to assassinate Palpatine, Yoda was a part of the Jedi council that ordered Anakin Skywalker to investigate. Fives was killed in the end, and Yoda was ultimately told that the doctors had found another cause, and that a vaccination had been prepared, in case of a future incident.[42]
Sifo-Dyas
"Know now we do that guide the creation of the clones from the beginning, Dooku did. Hm, our enemy created an army for us."
"If this was known, public confidence in the war effort, the Jedi, and the Republic would vanish. There would be mass chaos."
"Cover up this discovery we must. No one, not even the Chancellor, may know. Valiant men the clones have proven to be. Saved my life and yours they have many times. Believe in them we must. Win the war swiftly we must, before our enemy's designs reach completion, whatever they may be."
―Yoda and Mace Windu[src]
Sometime later, The Jedi received a distress single from a moon near Oba Diah. Sending Plo Koon and Commander Wolfe to investigate, they found the remains of a shuttle and the lightsaber of Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, who was killed sometime around the Battle of Naboo while dealing with a conflict on Felucia. Upon reviewing the temple archives, Jocasta Nu and the Jedi found that the information had been sealed by order of the Supreme Chancellor. While sending Anakin Skywalker and his master, Obi-Wan Kenobi to Felucia, Yoda went to speak with Palpatine, not knowing he was the Sith Lord that orchestrated the murder and the creation of the Clone Army. Palpatine told Yoda to visit Chancellor Valorum (These events happened before the Vote of No Confidence that led to Palpatine becoming Chancellor). Palpatine then contacted Count Dooku, telling him to destroy the last piece of the puzzle before the Jedi would be able to unravel the mystery.[43]

Valorum Yoda The Lost One
Yoda meets with former Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum on Coruscant.
Anakin and Obi-Wan attempted to communicate with the native tribe on the Felucia, but were unable to understand them. They did learn, however, that a Second Jedi had shown up with Syfo-Dias. [43]

Valorum told Yoda that he sent Sifo-Dyas to negotiate with the Pyke Syndicate to stop a booming drug trade underneath Coruscant. Valorum also revealed that he kept this secret, fearing his opponents in the bureaucracy. The talks were postponed after the Council sent Sifo-Dyas to intervene on Felucia. Valorum was unable to identify the second Jedi, but did say that his assistant, Silman, was with Sifo-Dyas when he was shot down. [43]
Eventually, Yoda dispatched Anakin and Obi-Wan to Oba Diah, where they learned the Pykes were paid to shoot down the ship carrying Sifo-Dyas, but had kept Silman captive as leverage and that Dooku was in fact the individual known as Tyrannus, leading them to realize Dooku impersonated Syfo-Dias to help push forward the Clone Wars. Yoda, not knowing how to stop the plot, suggested the Jedi keep the discovery a secret, and that they should keep playing the Sith Lord's game. [43]
Discovering immortality
YodaHearsQui-Gon
Yoda hears the voice of Qui-Gon Jinn.
While meditating during the end of the war, Yoda heard the voice of Qui-Gon Jinn, who demonstrated his presence by levitating Yoda. The encounter left Yoda distracted during the subsequent Council gathering, leaving them worried about whether the stresses of the war were finally taking its toll on him. While strolling through the Temple gardens, Yoda was greeted by Anakin. Yoda asked him about his encounter with Qui-Gon's spirit on Mortis, which Anakin had dismissed as a trick, noting the Jedi belief that one could not retain their identity after becoming one with the Force. Yoda responded that he now questioned this dogma.[44]

Yoda confessed what happened to the Council, much to their disbelief. They agreed though to meditate with him, to verify his experience. Despite meditating together for an entire day, they were unable to hear anything. Ki-Adi-Mundi expressed worry that Yoda had become susceptible to Sith manipulation, so Yoda underwent medical tests that revealed that he was still in good health. Jedi Doctor Rig Nema suggested Yoda undergo a deprivation ritual that would allow him to meditate more strongly and find the source of the voice.[44]
Agreeing, Yoda was suspended in a liquid tank with an oxygen mask to bring him as close as possible to death without actually becoming one with the Force. While unconscious, Qui-Gon's voice requested Yoda go to Dagobah, and to tell no one about it. After, Obi-Wan broke open the tank due to his concern over Yoda's failing life signs.[44]
Put on bedrest and under guard, Yoda convinced Anakin to help him escape by posing as simply accompanying each other for a walk. Guided to the Jedi Temple Hangar, Anakin lent Yoda his astromech droid R2-D2 to accompany him to his personal interceptor. Yoda and R2-D2 flew to Dagobah, where Yoda asked the droid to stay with their ship while he found a clearing to meditate.[44]
YodaDagobahLight
Yoda communes with Qui-Gon on Dagobah.
Qui-Gon's voice greeted him. Yoda asked why he could not see him. Qui-Gon explained he had not been fully trained enough to do so. The Living Force appeared to Yoda in the form of fireflies, guiding Yoda to a cave strong with the dark side, it showed the Jedi Master a vision of the future, where a hooded Sith Lord slaughtered the Jedi. Qui-Gon explained to a distraught Yoda that he would help him bring hope for the future, and directed him to the planet that spawned the midi-chlorians.[44][45]

Arriving there, Yoda gave his lightsaber to R2-D2 for safekeeping, and descended into the world to meet the Force Priestesses, who agreed to teach him how to achieve life after death. First, Yoda confronted a manifestation of his own dark side, conquering his hubris. Next, he witnessed a vision of the Jedi massacred in the Temple, where an apparition of a dying Ahsoka Tano asked him if she would still become one with the Force after being expelled from the Jedi Order; this vision was a manifestation of Yoda's guilt over having placed Tano on the path that led to her departure. An apparition of Katooni then invited Yoda to enter a peaceful courtyard to escape these painful events. Seeing Qui-Gon Jinn, Kenobi, Tano and Dooku together, alive and full Jedi, Yoda eventually recognized the vision's falsehood, overcoming its temptation and his attachment to those that have fallen.[45]
EpGuide613
Yoda sees the specter of Darth Bane.
Instructed to complete his tests on the Sith homeworld of Moraband, Yoda and R2-D2 flew to the valley where the ancient Sith Lords were buried. Recognizing the danger, Yoda instructed R2-D2 to return to the Jedi Temple and inform the Council of what happened, if he did not come back after three nights. Spectres of a serpent, undead Sith warriors and even Darth Bane himself confronted him, but Yoda brushed them off. As he entered a temple execution chamber, the Force Priestesses warned Yoda that whatever he encountered there would be beyond their control.[46]

Unknown to Yoda, Darth Sidious and Dooku sensed his presence on Moraband, and met in an abandoned tower in the industrial sector of Coruscant. Using Dooku and Yoda's Force-bond, Sidious planned to reach out to Yoda and crush his spirit. Appearing to Yoda in the form of Sifo-Dyas, Sidious had Yoda wake up in a Republic attack gunship with Anakin and members of the 501st Legion, en route to terminate the Sith on Coruscant. As they arrived, the clones, lead by Captain Rex, rushed at Dooku only to be hit with Sith lightning. Skywalker immediately attacked Dooku while Sidious fled. Walking sadly past the fallen clones, a dismayed Yoda witnessed Skywalker brutally decapitate Dooku. However, he left Skywalker and pursued Sidious. [46]
Emerging out on a catwalk, Yoda and Sidious dueled. Skywalker tried to help, but Sidious knocked him out. Sensing an opportunity, Sidious damaged the catwalk, forcing Yoda to divide his attention between Force-lifting Skywalker to save him from falling to his death and blocking Sidious' Sith lightning. After Sidious taunted him by suggesting he sacrifice Skwalker to concentrate on defeating him, Yoda put down his lightsaber to ensure Skywalker's safety. As the catwalk collapsed Yoda maneuvered Skywalker to safety and grabbed Sidious, dragging him down too. The incident proved Yoda's selflessness and demonstrated his resolve to Sidious, who concluded the illusion as he realized it would take more to defeat the Jedi Master.[46]
Yoda awoke, and was greeted by a Priestess who explained he would continue his training with Qui-Gon's spirit. As she disappeared in a glow of light, Yoda had a vision of the future, including his own death.[47] Yoda returned to the Jedi Temple, where Windu and Kenobi greeted him in the garden. Yoda claimed his journey had been uneventful, but felt it had demonstrated the Jedi had been wrong to wage the war on the Republic's behalf.[46]
Utapau Crystal Crisis
Following the death of Master Tu-Anh on the sinkhole world of Utapau, Yoda and his fellow Jedi Council members sent Master Kenobi and Anakin on a mission to investigate her death.[48] They discovered that she had been investigating Separatist efforts to excavate and obtain a giant kyber crystal on Utapau. After destroying the crystal and thus denying the Separatists access to the weapon, Yoda was present at a Council meeting when the two Jedi gave a report of the events on Utapau. During the meeting, Yoda recounted how the ancient Sith had constructed superweapons using massive kyber crystals to power them up. He feared that Dooku's mysterious master Darth Sidious had similar intentions.[49]

The Dooku assassination attempt
"One, there is, who has tried and failed. Yet closer has she come than any other to killing Count Dooku."
"You can't possibly mean Ventress!"
―Yoda and Kenobi discussing the merits of partnering Ventress with Quinlan Vos[src]
Dark Disciple Cover Detail
The Jedi Council partnered Master Quinlan Vos with Asajj Ventress to kill Dooku
Yoda and his fellow Jedi Council members witnessed Count Dooku's devastating attack on Mahranee, the home world of the Mahran species, via hologram. The Council was reluctant to condone an assassination, but ultimately concluded that killing Dooku was necessary to end the war and prevent more deaths. The Council decided to use Master Quinlan Vos, who had considerable experience with undercover work, to assassinate the Separatist leader. When Vos suggested that a partner accompany him, Yoda recommended Asajj Ventress, Dooku's former Sith apprentice and a Nightsister for that mission, knowing her hatred for Dooku. Ventress agreed to assist Vos with his mission but insisted that he had to learn the ways of the dark side.[6]

Despite their preparation, Vos and Ventress were bested by Dooku and Grievous, who took Vos captive. Dooku then managed to bring Vos over to the dark side by revealing that Ventress had murdered his late Master, Tholme. After Vos spurned Ventress' offer to rescue him, he became Dooku's newest Sith apprentice and assumed the persona of "Admiral Engima." Ventress informed Master Kenobi who conveyed the news to his fellow Council members including Yoda. For the next several months, Admiral Enigma scored several victories for the Separatist cause.[6]
When Vos' old friend Akar-Deshu, a Mahran Jedi, brought Ventress into a Council meeting to discuss rescuing Vos, Yoda and Kenobi spoke up for Ventress when Windu wanted to arrest her. During the proceedings, Yoda and his fellow Jedi learned that Ventress had instructed Vos in the dark side in order to defeat Dooku. While Windu was suspicious of Ventress, Yoda and Kenobi were convinced that she genuinely cared for Vos and that she had rejected the Sith ways for good. After sending Ventress along with Desh and Anakin outside, Yoda and his fellow Jedi debated whether to include Ventress in their rescue mission. When Master Kenobi suggested leading the operation to rescue Vos, Yoda accepted Kenobi's offer and also argued that Ventress was key to the rescue mission. He also recommended that Kenobi take both Ventress and his former Padawan Skywalker along for the mission.[6]
After receiving intelligence from Admiral Wullf Yularen that Count Dooku and "Admiral Enigma" were planning to attack Taris, the Jedi Council decided that they had to move quickly to rescue Quinlan. In the end, the Council decided to offer Ventress a pardon for all her crimes in return for rescuing Vos. The rescue mission was a success and the Jedi succeeded in recovering Vos alive. To reward her services, Ventress was formally pardoned. Unknown to Yoda and his colleagues, Vos had become a Separatist double agent in order to gain Dooku's trust so that he could learn the identity of Darth Sidious and destroy the Sith once and for all.[6]
Using his position in the Jedi Order, Vos leaked intelligence about Jedi and Republic military operations to Count Dooku; allowing the Separatists to undermine these operations. After several Council members voiced their suspicions about Vos' true loyalties, Yoda had a personal meeting with Vos and was able to deduce that Quinlan had fallen to the dark side. To test Vos' loyalties, the Jedi Council sent him to assassinate Dooku, but secretly sent Kenobi and Skywalker to tail him.[6]
Vos managed to defeat Dooku in lightsaber combat, but did not kill him. When Vos demanded that Dooku lead him to Darth Sidious, Kenobi and Skywalker promptly revealed themselves and arrested the two men. After learning of Vos and Dooku's arrest, Master Yoda ordered Kenobi to bring them to back to the Jedi Temple where they would be interrogated and executed for their crimes. However, Vos and Dooku escaped with the unwitting help of Ventress, leading to the events of the Second battle of Christophsis. In the end, Ventress helped Vos return to the light side, but was killed by Dooku. Kenobi and Skywalker then recaptured Vos and brought him back to Coruscant.[6]
After Vos confessed all his crimes and explained his motivations to destroy the Sith, Yoda and his fellow Council members accepted Vos' repentance as genuine and pardoned him. Kenobi, who had believed that the order to assassinate Dooku was morally wrong and responsible for Vos' fall to the dark side, took on the responsibility of monitoring Vos during his rehabilitation. Kenobi accompanied Vos to Dathomir for Ventress' funeral. [6]
Rise of the Empire
Council RotS
Yoda on the Jedi Council near the end of the war.
Three years after the initial battle on Geonosis, the Republic was crumbling under the attacks of the Confederacy. Throughout the course of the war, Palpatine had been granted ever increasing personal authority by the Senate to command both the war and the Republic at large. The Jedi Council, though reluctant to oppose the extremely popular Chancellor, nonetheless grew ever more concerned about the continual centralization of political power in Palpatine. After a Separatist attack on the Republic capital world of Coruscant by General Grievous, Palpatine, hoping to increase his influence over the Jedi Council and further ingratiate himself with Anakin Skywalker, appointed the young Jedi to be his personal representative on the Council. The Council, having little choice, begrudgingly accepted Palpatine's interference, but refused to grant Skywalker the rank of Jedi Master, infuriating him.[8]

Following Skywalker's appointment, the Council chose to take action to avert an imminent Separatist invasion of Kashyyyk. Yoda chose to personally oversee the defense, as he was held in high esteem by the Wookiees. After the battle, Yoda participated in a holographic session of the Council, where he learned from Skywalker that Republic intelligence located the fugitive General Grievous in the Utapau system. When Skywalker volunteered to lead the campaign, with the stated approval of Palpatine, Yoda and Mace Windu both disagreed, and Yoda nominated Kenobi to be sent instead. Agreeing with Yoda, fellow councilor Ki-Adi-Mundi seconded the nomination and the decision was made.[8]
Order 66
Pg3 saber bg
Yoda fights his way into the Jedi Temple, now under Imperial control.
While Yoda was on Kashyyyk, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine revealed his true identity as the Sith Lord Darth Sidious, turned Anakin Skywalker to the dark side of the Force, and defeated a group of Jedi Council members who had come to arrest him. Christening his newfound apprentice Darth Vader, he sent him and and the 501st Attack Battalion to attack the Jedi temple and slaughter all who resided there. Meanwhile, Sidious began to broadcast Order 66 to the clone troopers, a contingency order that required them to eliminate their Jedi Generals.[8]

As the clone army turned on their leaders galaxywide, Yoda sensed the deaths of his fellow Jedi and fell to his knees. Commander Gree and another trooper received Order 66 a few moments afterwards and prepared to shoot Yoda. However, Yoda sensed their intentions and decapitated the duo with his lightsaber. He then proceeded to escape with the help of the Wookiees Chewbacca and Tarfful, rendezvousing with Senator Bail Organa of Alderaan and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who had escaped death on Utapau.[8]
The two Jedi discussed their situation, during which Bail and Yoda informed Kenobi that the Temple was broadcasting a coded retreat message, ordering all surviving Jedi to return to Coruscant. Yoda and Kenobi decided to return to the Temple and reconfigure the beacon to warn any survivors to go into hiding, and to that end Bail took them to Coruscant. The two Jedi fought their way in and witnessed the effects of the rampage by Vader and his clone unit, including the visible lightsaber cuts on several dead clones.[8]
Having recalibrated the signal, Kenobi wished to learn the identity of the one responsible for the massacre. Yoda, aware that Anakin Skywalker's fall to the dark side would cause Kenobi pain, cautioned him before the younger Jedi activated the security recordings. The duo thus learned of Palpatine's Sith identity and the formation of the Galactic Empire from the Republic. Agreeing that the two Sith had to be destroyed, Yoda headed to the Galactic Senate to confront Palpatine, while a deeply reluctant Kenobi departed to the volcanic planet of Mustafar to face his former apprentice.[8]
Duel in the Senate
"I have waited a long time for this moment, my little green friend… at last, the Jedi are no more."
"Not if anything to say about it, I have! […] At an end your rule is, and not short enough it was."
―Palpatine and Yoda[src]
YodaDuel
Yoda battling Palpatine in the Senate chamber.
Upon arriving into the Senate, Yoda confronted Palpatine, who surprised the Jedi and rendered him unconscious with a burst of Force lightning. As the Sith boasted about the eradication of the Order at his hand, Yoda managed to wake up and slammed his opponent into a wall. Palpatine attempted to escape, but the Grand Master blocked the exit. The duo then drew their lightsabers and engaged in a fierce duel that soon continued into the central auditorium of the Senate Building. After deflecting Sidious' own lightning back at him and repulsing his multiple telekinetic assaults that made use of the numerous Senate hoverpods, Yoda was flung to the bottom of the Senate Building. He then crawled through the maintenance tunnels of the building to the airspeeder of Senator Bail Organa, considering the duel his personal failure and voicing his intent to go into self-imposed exile.[8]

Age of the Empire
Exile
"Into exile I must go. Failed, I have."
―Yoda to Bail Organa[src]
YodaLandsonDagobah
Yoda lands on the planet Dagobah, his home for the rest of his life.
After being rescued by Bail Organa, the two proceeded to the asteroid Polis Massa, where Yoda conferred with Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit, who offered him to train him in techniques that could help him retain his identity after his death. Obi-Wan Kenobi, having defeated but not killed Vader on Mustafar, arrived soon thereafter, bringing with him the dying Senator Amidala. She gave birth to her twins from Anakin Skywalker and named them Luke and Leia before her death.[8]

Sensing the children's power in the Force, Yoda, Kenobi and Organa decided to keep them hidden in unsuspecting locations to avoid detection by the Empire; Luke Skywalker was delivered to the Lars family on Tatooine, while Organa personally adopted his sister, Leia. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Yoda asked Kenobi for a moment of his time. He revealed that he had training for him during his solitude on Tatooine, and that Qui-Gon Jinn had reached the path to immortality, having returned from the Netherworld of the Force. Yoda decided he would teach Kenobi to communicate with Jinn.[8]
Using an E3-standard starship lifeboat, Yoda returned to Dagobah to begin his own exile. The lifeboat served as Yoda's initial shelter but it started to degrade within a year due to Dagobah's swampy environment. As the first shelter was slowly consumed by the swamp, Yoda built a new home for himself. He thus settled down to wait for the twins to grow up, and continued his studies of the Force.[8][50]
Helping the Spectres
Yoda in the Lothal Jedi Temple
Yoda appearing to Ahsoka Tano and biding her farewell.
"Master Yoda, you're powerful. You must know a way to destroy Vader and his Inqusitors."
"Padawan, thousands of Jedi once there were. Then came war. In our arrogance, join the conflict swiftly we did. Fear, anger, hate. Consumed by the dark side, the Jedi were."
"Was it wrong for the Jedi to fight? Is it wrong for me to protect my friends?"
"Wrong? Hmm. A long time, fought I did. Consumed by fear, I was, though see it I did not."
"You were afraid?"
"Yes, afraid. Hmm, surprised are you? A challenge lifelong it is, not to bend fear into anger."
―Ezra Bridger consults Yoda through the Force.[src]
During his exile on Dagobah, Yoda kept an eye on other Jedi throughout the galaxy, including those who ventured into the various Jedi Temples found amongst the stars. Approximately four years before the Battle of Yavin, Yoda spoke to Kanan Jarrus, who had been the Padawan of Depa Billaba and a survivor of Order 66.[51][52] Jarrus had traveled to the Jedi Temple on the planet Lothal with his own Padawan, Ezra Bridger, to whom Yoda also spoke. Bridger was in the temple in order to overcome his greatest fears; Yoda acted as an anonymous guide in helping Bridger do so and to understand why he wanted to become a Jedi and how to withdraw from the anger and the wish of revenge within him. This guidance led Bridger to receive a kyber crystal, which he used to build his own lightsaber. Meanwhile, Yoda counseled Jarrus about Jarrus' insecurities as a teacher.[11]

The year after, Kanan and Ezra returned to the Lothal Temple with Ahsoka Tano in search of a way to defeat the Inquisitorius. Yoda cast an illusion of the Jedi Temple Guard for Kanan, including the Grand Inquisitor as he was before the Jedi Purge. The Inquisitor forced Kanan to recognize his fears and knighted him a true Jedi. Meanwhile, Ezra pleaded with Yoda for help: despite his pacifism, the Jedi Master ultimately directed him to go to Malachor. When the other Inquisitors arrived, Yoda used the Temple Guard to distract them as the Jedi escaped. As she fled, Ahsoka turned back and saw Yoda, who waved at her: she smiled back.[53][54]
Galactic Civil War
Taking a new apprentice
"Do, or do not. There is no try."
―Yoda to Luke Skywalker — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Yodalukedagobah
Yoda trains Luke Skywalker on Dagobah.
Years later, Luke Skywalker, under guidance from the Force spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi[5] who had served as his mentor,[55] sought Yoda in his Dagobah exile to receive Jedi training. To test Skywalker, Yoda did not reveal his true identity and instead promised to lead him to Yoda; Skywalker's subsequent frustration and his age made the Jedi doubtful as to whether it was a good idea to train the boy, but Kenobi's spirit managed to convince him to do so.[5]

Yoda proceeded to tutor Skywalker with a variety of exercises, including the telekinetic manipulation of objects in the area. As part of his training, he also sent Skywalker into a nearby cave, which was powerful with the dark side in order to demonstrate the dangers of falling to the dark side of the Force.[5]
During his tenure with Yoda, Skywalker sensed that his friends were in danger in Cloud City on the gas giant Bespin, and headed there to confront Darth Vader in spite of Yoda's and Kenobi's persuasion to the contrary. Although Kenobi was distraught by Skywalker's rushed departure, Yoda reminded him that there was still another offspring of Anakin Skywalker[5]—Leia Organa.[56]
Death
"Twilight is upon me, and soon night must fall. That is the way of things…the way of the Force."
―Yoda, to Luke Skywalker, shortly before his death[src]
Yoda&#039;s death
Yoda becomes one with the Force.
Skywalker, having engaged in a duel with Vader on Cloud City, returned to Dagobah after a year. Yoda,[56] ill and very close to death,[2] confirmed what Vader had revealed to the young Jedi on Bespin: that the Sith Lord indeed was Anakin Skywalker, his father. He also warned him that with his training fully complete, his final task would be confronting Vader again and defeating him, and cautioned Skywalker not to underestimate the Force powers of Galactic Emperor Palpatine. Finally, he also managed to inform him of the existence of another member of the Skywalker family. Yoda then died, and his body disappeared as he became one with the Force.[56]

Legacy
"Yoda will always be with you."
―The spirit of Obi-Wan Kenobi to Luke Skywalker, shortly after Yoda's death[src]
JediGhosts-ROTJ
Anakin Skywalker, Yoda, and Obi-Wan Kenobi as Force spirits on Endor.
With his death, Yoda's body disappeared and he managed to retain his consciousness by becoming a Force spirit[56] thanks to the techniques passed on to him by Qui-Gon Jinn's spirit.[2] Luke Skywalker used the training he received to confront Palpatine and Darth Vader aboard the Imperial battlestation Death Star II over the forest moon Endor as part of an all-out attack on the station by the anti-Imperial Rebel Alliance, defeating Vader and turning him back to the light side of the Force, resulting in Palpatine's death at the hands of the redeemed Anakin Skywalker. After his redemption, Anakin Skywalker would die. As the Rebels and Luke Skywalker celebrated on the surface of the moon due to the demolition of Death Star II and the deaths of Palpatine and Vader, the ghosts of Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda briefly appeared to Luke Skywalker.[56]

30 years later, Rey heard Yoda's voice describing the Force during a vision she witnessed upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Luke Skywalker, and his father before him.[57]
Personality and traits
"You knew Master Yoda?"
"Yes. He taught almost all of the younglings in the temple, at one point or another."
"Kanan described him to me. Small, green, and wrinkly with pointy ears. But he didn't know what he was really like."
"I'm not sure anyone did. He was wise, kind, but when I was young, he seemed happier. As the Clone War dragged on, he carried a great burden, a deep sorrow, as if he knew before anyone else that one time was ending, and another beginning."
―Ezra Bridger and Ahsoka Tano[src]
Yoda teaching
Yoda served as a teacher for the Jedi for 800 years.
Yoda had spent eight centuries training and tutoring generations of Jedi,[2] he was reluctant to accept Anakin Skywalker or Luke Skywalker for Jedi training, considering them unfit. In both cases, however, he allowed Obi-Wan Kenobi to persuade him into accepting them as trainees.[7][56]

When Dooku triggered a partial room collapse during his duel with Yoda on Geonosis, the Jedi, confronted with the choice of pursuing the fleeing Sith or protecting the hurt Obi-Wan Kenobi and unconscious Anakin Skywalker from the falling debris, opting to save his comrades instead of going after Dooku.[10] However, when fellow Master Plo Koon's fleet was destroyed by the Confederate superweapon Malevolence, Yoda forbade Anakin Skywalker and Ahsoka Tano to conduct a search for Koon, citing the danger posed by the Separatist vessel.[32]
As he neared his death before the Battle of Endor commenced, Yoda accepted his own mortality and imminent demise, and died becoming one with the Force.[2]
Yoda's ears were expressive and would sometimes curl when he was expressing strong emotions like surprise.[6]
Powers and abilities
"The history of items, does the Force permit Vos to understand. The history of a soul, does the Force permit me to understand."
―Yoda about his abilities[src]
Yodasforcedeflection
Yoda was capable of deflecting Force lightning with his palms.
Despite his advanced age and small size, Yoda was very strong with the Force and was an extremely skilled warrior. Wielding a short green-bladed lightsaber,[8][10] Yoda was capable of holding his own in combat against opponents such as the Sith Lords Darth Tyrannus[10] and Darth Sidious.[8] He was also able to deflect the Force lightning of the aforementioned Sith with his bare hands, a feat he demonstrated in both duels.[8][10] Yoda could also telekinetically toss aside metal pieces hurled at him by Tyranus, levitate stone slabs in mid-air,[10] or move Senate hoverpods around.[8] In order to teach Luke Skywalker that anything was possible with the Force, Yoda levitated his student's sunken T-65B X-wing starfighter out of the swamp of Dagobah and onto dry land.[5]

During a confrontation with Confederate forces on the coral moon of Rugosa, Yoda annihilated an entire squad of droids without using his lightsaber, and destroyed three assault tanks and their accompanying infantry single-handedly.[29]
Yoda had an incredibly strong connection to the Force, which granted him numerous abilities. During the trial of Quinlan Vos, Yoda revealed that he could uncover the alignment of a Force-user just by touching them—stating that the Force had permitted him to read the history of a soul.[6] While physically isolated on Dagobah, Yoda was able to see other Jedi that were active in the Force; he could not see one that had forsaken the ways of the Jedi.[58] He could keep in mental contact with the Jedi Temples across the galaxy, and telepathically converse with any Jedi within them.[11]
Yoda was able to actively have Force visions, and was not limited to spontaneous visions. However, he understood that Force prophecy was not absolute and that the future was always in motion.[5] His visions led him to foresee the fall of the Jedi in the Clone Wars and even his own death.[46]
In spite of all his abilities, the diminutive Jedi Master was ultimately unable to defeat Darth Sidious during their final duel in the Galactic Senate chamber; they fought to a draw and Yoda was forced to flee.[8]
Behind the scenes
Grand Old Wizard
Early concept art by Joe Johnston.
Originally named "Minch Yoda" before it was shortened to simply Yoda,[59] the character made his first appearance in the 1980 film Star Wars: Episode V The Empire Strikes Back, and subsequently appeared in Star Wars: Episode VI Return of the Jedi, the closing installment of the original trilogy. He was also featured in all three episodes of the prequel trilogy, and multiple episodes of the Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels animated television series. Yoda also played a role in various Expanded Universe material now under the Star Wars Legends brand and thus non-canonical.[60]

Many of the information and training that Yoda gave to Luke on Dagobah was originally going to be given by Ben Kenobi, but due to Kenobi's death in A New Hope, George Lucas conceived Yoda to fulfill the role of Luke's teacher after Kenobi's death.[61] Early concepts of Yoda imagined him as a large alien before he was reimplemented as a tiny one, with various gnome– and elfin-like portrayals being created by the design team of Episode V.[59]
Once Yoda's appearance was finalized, make-up and creatures supervisor Stuart Freeborn created a detailed puppet, brought to life on screen by Frank Oz. A new model, younger in appearance, was built by Nick Dudman's animatronics crew for the filming of Episode I, in which Yoda also appeared as a CGI model for two shots' duration. In Episode II, Yoda's character was realized entirely through computer-generated imagery, partly due to the practical necessity imposed by the action scenes of Yoda's duel with Dooku, and partly due to the determination of Animation Director Rob Coleman. Designed specifically to not exceed Oz's puppetwork in realism, the animated version of Yoda was accepted after several shots from Empire Strikes Back were recreated using the new technology as animation tests and evaluated.[59]
YodaCharacterStudies
Character studies of Yoda created for The Clone Wars episode "Ambush".
Yoda's Star Wars: The Clone Wars incarnation was voiced by veteran Star Wars voice actor Tom Kane.[62] Oz returned to voice the character in Star Wars Rebels and Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens.[63]

The number of toes on Yoda's feet has long been debated. In Star Wars: Absolutely Everything You Need to Know, Yoda is given as having three toes at the front of each of his feet, and one at the back, comparing them with that of many birds.


 http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Mace_Windu
 Mace Windu, a Force-sensitive human male, was a revered Jedi Master and member of the Jedi High Council during the last years of the Galactic Republic. During his time in the Jedi Order, he once served as elected leader of the Jedi and, during the Clone Wars, as a Jedi General in the Grand Army of the Republic. He was the greatest champion of the Jedi Order and promoted its ancient traditions amidst the growing influence of the dark side of the Force in the corrupt, declining days of the Republic.

When the Separatist Crisis spawned the birth of the Confederacy of Independent Systems and sparked the Clone Wars, Windu and the Jedi rallied to the defense of the Republic and became the leaders of the Grand Army of the Republic. Throughout the war, Windu served the Jedi and the Republic in various capacities—on the battlefield in command of the clone army, on Coruscant as an overseer of the war effort and an advisor to Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, and even as a diplomat to contested worlds, despite his disdain of politics. His exploits on the frontline served as a reminder of his reputation as a renowned Jedi warrior.
As the war drew to a close, Windu became increasingly suspicious of the chancellor's motives, as Palpatine had amassed near-dictatorial control over the Galactic Senate, and sensed the rising power of the dark side in the galaxy. His suspicions were confirmed when Anakin Skywalker, a Jedi Knight and the Chosen One of ancient prophecy, discovered that Palpatine was Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith who manipulated the Republic and the Separatist Alliance into war. Windu, along with Jedi Masters Kit Fisto, Agen Kolar, and Saesee Tiin, confronted Palpatine with the intention of arresting him. Instead, the Dark Lord attacked them, striking them down one by one until only Windu was left. Windu bested Palpatine in the confrontation and—deciding he was too dangerous to be left alive—prepared to strike him down, but the intervention of Anakin Skywalker, who saved the chancellor's life, led to Windu's death.
Windu's actions led Palpatine to brand the Jedi as traitors to the Republic. The chancellor executed Order 66, and clone troopers across the galaxy turned against and killed their Jedi leaders, marking the fall of the Jedi Order. Palpatine transformed the Republic into the Galactic Empire, and the Emperor's new regime promoted anti-Jedi sentiment across the galaxy. Through propaganda the Empire portrayed Windu as the leader of a criminal gang of Jedi who caused the outbreak of the Clone Wars. In spite of the propaganda, some of Windu's actions were remembered with fondness; General Cham Syndulla, who served alongside Windu during the Battle of Ryloth, remembered Windu with great respect and told the tale of how Windu helped him liberate Ryloth during the war.
Contents[show]
Biography
Early life
Mace Windu was born on the planet Haruun Kal approximately fifty years before the Clone Wars.[1] Due to his natural affinity to the Force, Windu was trained as a Jedi[3]—defenders of the Galactic Republic, the Jedi Order were the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy.[7] Prior to the Naboo Crisis, Windu had achieved the rank of Jedi Master and gained a seat on the Jedi High Council—the governing body of the Jedi Order.[5] Long regarded[2] as the Jedi Order's greatest champion,[8] Windu endeavored to maintain the Jedi's ancient traditions while the Republic declined due to galactic unrest and political corruption.[2]

During one of his missions, Windu rescued a young human girl, Depa Billaba, from pirates and brought her to the Jedi Temple. He then took Billaba as his Padawan learner, who became a Jedi Knight[6] and ultimately a member of the Jedi Council as well.[5]
Invasion of Naboo
"There's no doubt the mysterious warrior was a Sith."
"Always two, there are. No more, no less. A master and an apprentice."
"But which was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?"
―Mace Windu and Yoda, on the return of the Sith[src]
Mace Windu Jedi Council TPM
Mace Windu served on the Jedi High Council during the final years of the Galactic Republic.
Approximately ten years before the Clone Wars, the Trade Federation initiated a blockade of the planet Naboo. At the request of Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum, the Jedi Council ordered Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice, Obi-Wan Kenobi, to settle the dispute as emissaries of the Chancellor. Upon returning from their failed mission, the Council was made aware of a far greater threat, the ancient enemy of the Jedi—the Sith—had returned.[5]

However, neither Mace Windu nor Ki-Adi-Mundi were particularly convinced that the Jedi Order's ancient nemesis could have returned, much less avoid the awareness of the Jedi Council. Nevertheless, Windu assured them that the full resources of the Order would be utilized in order to verify the truth of Jinn's claims—and more specifically, the identity of the dark warrior who attacked him on Tatooine. It was then that Jinn revealed another significant discovery that he made during the course of his mission. Prior to his departure from Tatooine and subsequent return to Coruscant, Jinn encountered Anakin Skywalker. A young human child with the highest concentration of midi-chlorians in his cells, Anakin was the only son of Shmi Skywalker, but had no father. Jinn ultimately deduced that Anakin had been conceived by the midi-chlorians.[5]
Windu knew that Jinn referred to the Jedi prophecy of the Chosen One—The One who would restore balance to the Force[5] by destroying the Sith.[9] Although he was skeptical of Jinn's claims, Windu instructed the maverick Jedi Master to bring young Skywalker to the Jedi Council Chamber where they could gauge his strength in the Force. The Council was impressed by Skywalker's ability to use the Force without any formal training, but they also sensed his emotional attachment to his mother and a great amount of fear within him. As such, they declined Jinn's request to have him trained in the Jedi arts.[5] Windu personally felt that Skywalker was too old to commit his life to the Jedi Code, as well as the Force, without the distraction of his emotional attachments.[2]
The Council soon reversed its decision after Jinn's death during the Battle of Naboo, entrusting Skywalker's training to the newly-anointed Jedi Knight Obi-Wan Kenobi.[5] Windu continued to doubt Skywalker's ability to commit himself to the Jedi way, however, and his ill-concealed distrust would put a strain on their relationship throughout the years as Skywalker ascended the ranks of the Jedi Order.[2] During the funeral of Qui-Gon Jinn, Grand Master Yoda and Windu realized that Jinn had been correct; the Sith had indeed survived and endured over the last millennium. Yoda quoted the Rule of Two, an ancient Sith philosophy that limited their ranks to two Sith Lords—a master and an apprentice—causing Windu to ponder over which of the two was defeated by Kenobi. Afterward, he attended the victory celebration on Naboo along with Yoda, several members of the Jedi Council, and the newly-elected Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine.[5]
Training Skywalker
Three years after the Battle of Naboo, Skywalker continued his training as a Jedi. One day, as Windu, Kenobi and Palpatine witnessed Skywalker training in lightsaber combat at the Temple, the two Jedi Masters were shocked to see Skywalker alter the appearance of the training droid he was sparring with into that of Darth Maul, the Sith Lord who killed Qui-Gon Jinn. After defeating the droid, Skywalker overheard two Padawans mocking him for being a "slave to his emotions," implying his past being a slave. Enraged, Skywalker used the Force to grab and activate their lightsabers. Kenobi immediately stepped in and ordered Skywalker to stop. Skywalker obeyed and returned the lightsabers to the Padawans, apologizing for his behavior. As Windu and Palpatine converse about how Skywalker's training was far from complete, Palpatine then offered to take in the boy. Windu refused the offer, stating that Kenobi had it well in hand. Palpatine then reminded Windu that Skywalker was a Jedi and that the Jedi were under the jurisdiction of the Senate, just as he was the Chancellor. Starting to become suspicious of Palpatine, Windu warily agreed.[10]

Clone Wars
Prelude to war
"You know, m'lady, that Count Dooku was once a Jedi. He couldn't assassinate anyone. It's not in his character."
―Mace Windu, to Padmé Amidala[src]
FiveFamousJediContinueToFailToDetectTheSith-AotC
Windu warned Palpatine that the Jedi Order alone could not protect the Republic in the event of war.
In the decade that followed the Battle of Naboo, the Galactic Republic faced an existential crisis as thousands of star systems and powerful corporations threatened to secede from the ancient democratic union. Chancellor Palpatine assured the Jedi Council that his office was seeking a peaceful resolution with the Separatists, and that he would not permit secession to divide the millennium-old Republic. Despite the Chancellor's assurances, Mace Windu advised him to consider just how vulnerable the Republic truly was—the Jedi Order lacked the sufficient manpower to defend the entire Republic in the event of war. Moreover, the Order was a force of peacekeepers rather than soldiers.[4]

As the Galactic Senate continued to debate over whether to vote for or against the proposed Military Creation Act, Senator Padmé Amidala narrowly avoided an assassination attempt on her life. During a meeting with the Chancellor, she revealed to Windu and Yoda her suspicion that Count Dooku was involved in the attack. Although Dooku had renounced his Jedi status before becoming the leader of the Separatist movement, Windu refused to believe that even a former Jedi could be involved in a plot to assassinate the Naboo senator—or anyone for that matter. Nevertheless, Windu heeded Yoda and Palpatine's warning that Amidala's life was in grave danger, regardless of whether Dooku was personally involved or not. As such, he dispatched Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker to serve as temporary bodyguards for the senator. After the death of Amidala's would-be assassin, Zam Wesell, Windu and the Council instructed Kenobi to track Wesell's accomplice who evaded capture. They also ordered Skywalker to accompany Amidala to her home planet of Naboo in case of another assassination attempt against her.[4]
While the Separatist Crisis worsened, Windu concurred with Yoda's belief that the dark side of the Force was responsible for the turmoil that undermined galactic peace and stability.[2] They were especially disturbed to learn that Kenobi's investigation led him to the planet Kamino where their agent discovered the existence of a secret army—hundreds of thousands of clone troopers, in addition to a million more units in development. Prime Minister Lama Su, the leader of the Kaminoan cloners, revealed that the army was made to serve the Galactic Republic. He also asserted that the client who commissioned the project was the late Jedi Master Sifo-Dyas, whom he presumed was alive and a leading member of the Jedi Council until Kenobi corrected his assumption.[4]
Mace Yoda holo
Kenobi's discovery of the clone army confounded Windu and Yoda.
Kenobi followed the source of the clone army, the bounty hunter Jango Fett, to the planet Geonosis where he reported another discovery to Windu and Yoda, both of whom witnessed his transmission in the Chancellor's office. Dooku and the Separatist Council had no intention of negotiating a peaceful solution with the Republic; they merely stalled for time in order to construct a massive army of battle droids for one purpose—to make war on the Republic. After the Senate voted to empower Chancellor Palpatine with emergency wartime powers, which he quickly used to authorize the formation of the Grand Army of the Republic, Windu led a Jedi assault team to Geonosis in order to rescue Kenobi while Yoda moved to take command of the clone troopers on Kamino.[4]

Battle of Geonosis
"This party's over."
―Windu, confronting Dooku on Geonosis[src]
Jangodied
By confronting the Jedi Order's champion in battle, Jango Fett literally lost his head.
Windu and the Jedi prevented the execution of Kenobi, as well as Skywalker and Amidala, both of whom traveled to Geonosis with the intention to help Kenobi, but were quickly confronted by an overwhelming force of battle droids.[4] The Jedi fought bravely,[2] destroying many battle droids in the process, but also sustained a large number of casualties. During the fight, Windu swiftly killed Jango Fett with relative ease, decapitating the bounty hunter as Boba Fett—a clone whom Jango regarded as a son—watched in horror.[4] Overwhelmed by the droids' superior numbers, the Jedi were cornered into the center of the Geonosian Petranaki arena. Dooku demanded that the Jedi surrender themselves into Separatist custody, but Windu refused to allow himself and his allies to be taken as prisoners of war. Moments later, the arrival of Yoda and the clone army ultimately turned the tide and enabled the Jedi survivors to escape the arena.[4]

In the aftermath of the arena skirmish, the Battle of Geonosis officially commenced as thousands of clone troopers engaged the battle droids on the field of war. The remaining members of Windu's assault team took to the field as well, assuming command of the clones who were trained to serve the Jedi with absolute loyalty. Reporting directly to Windu, Clone Commander CT-411, "Ponds", and five special commando units accompanied the legendary Jedi champion to the forefront of the battle.[4] Windu kept Ponds by his side during the rest of the battle.[11] Under the Jedi's leadership, the clone army forced the Separatists into full retreat, abandoning Geonosis to Republic occupation. Windu returned to the capital, content that the first battle resulted in a Republic victory, but was also morose over the failure to capture Dooku.[4] By then Windu came to accept that he had been wrong in his preconception of Dooku's character; his old friend had turned to the dark side, becoming an enemy of both the Order and the Republic.[2]
Yoda mace windu ki-adi-mundi battle of geonosis
The Battle of Geonosis led to the Jedi, including Windu, Yoda and Mundi, taking control of the clone army.
The formation of the Confederacy of Independent Systems shattered a thousand years of peace that once defined the Jedi Order's role in the galaxy. In order to preserve and defend the Galactic Republic, Windu and his fellow Jedi accepted formal command of the clone army as generals and commanders. He also learned from Kenobi about Dooku's assertion that a mysterious Sith Lord by the name of Darth Sidious had hundreds of senators under his control, but Yoda believed that the Council had no incentive to trust the word of a fallen Jedi. Windu nonetheless recommended that the Council maintain a watchful eye on the Senate,[4] having never trusted the highly corrupt government in the first place.[2] As the clone troopers and their Jedi leaders prepared for war, Yoda expressed his sadness to Windu and Kenobi, declaring that the shroud of darkness had descended upon the galaxy—now engulfed by the Clone Wars, the first galactic-scale conflict since the formation of the Republic.[4]

Rescue of Rotta
"This is the opportunity we've been looking for. The Jedi must rescue Jabba's son."
"Hmm… I don't like it—dealing with that criminal scum. This is a dark day for the Republic."
―Sheev Palpatine and Mace Windu, on a potential alliance with Jabba Desilijic Tiure[src]
Windu Stak Razor
General Windu's forays onto the battlefield served to emphasize his reputation as a renowned warrior.
As a senior member of the Jedi Council, Mace Windu directed the Republic war effort from the Jedi Temple on Coruscant,[2] often conferring with Grand Master Yoda and Supreme Chancellor Palpatine on matters of strategy and diplomacy.[12] However, on occasion he also took to the field, commanding clone troopers and Jedi on several military campaigns[2] with Commander CT-411 (nicknamed "Ponds") as his second-in-command.[13] Windu's exploits on the battlefield served as a reminder of his reputation as a fierce warrior and champion of the Jedi Order.[2]

During the early phase of the war, Rotta—the Huttlet son of Jabba Desilijic Tiure—was "Huttnapped"[14] by the Separatists,[12] who conspired to discredit the Jedi Knights in order to prevent a potential alliance between the Republic and the Hutt Clan.[14] In response to Rotta's abduction, Jabba issued a general distress call to anyone who was willing to aid in the safe retrieval of his son. Although Palpatine was quick to use this turn of events in the Republic's favor, Windu urged the Chancellor to proceed with caution, believing there was more to the kidnapping than what was apparent. He also informed the Chancellor that, because of the Separatist General Grievous, Republic forces were stretched too thin to send a large number of Jedi on a rescue mission. Due to Palpatine's insistence that the Republic clone army needed to gain safe passage through the Outer Rim Hyperspace routes in Hutt Space, Windu agreed to assign the mission to Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker since both Jedi Knights were now available after liberating the planet Christophsis from Separatist occupation.[12]
City Plaza
By the chancellor's request, Windu dispatched Kenobi and Skywalker on a mission to save Jabba's son.
Soon afterward Windu received a message from the Advanced Recon Force troopers who tracked Rotta's location to an old monastery on the planet Teth. Due to the monastery's heavy fortification, Windu instructed the troopers to stand by and await Republic reinforcements. He then reassigned three of Admiral Wurtz's cruisers to the rescue operation. In spite of Count Dooku's plot to form an alliance between the Confederacy and the Hutt Clan, Rotta was ultimately redeemed from captivity by Anakin Skywalker and his new Padawan, Ahsoka Tano. The Separatists were defeated on Teth and Jabba was made aware of Dooku's conspiracy, which in turn allowed the Republic to secure passage through the Hyperspace lanes in Hutt territory.[12]

Liberation of Ryloth
"General Windu! Perhaps we can come to a compromise."
"Not when I hold all the cards."
―Wat Tambor and Mace Windu[src]
Obi-Wan and Mace Storm Over Ryloth
Jedi Generals Windu and Kenobi played leading roles in the Ryloth campaign.
Following the Separatist invasion of the planet Ryloth, General Windu personally oversaw the campaign to retake the Twi'lek homeworld. In response to the Republic's imminent counterattack, Wat Tambor—foreman of the Techno Union and Separatist emir of Ryloth—ordered the Separatist navy to form a blockade around the planet. As such, Windu entrusted Skywalker and Tano with the responsibility of breaking through the blockade in order to clear a path for the rest of the Republic invasion force. After some difficulty, Master and Padawan succeeded in their task, allowing Windu and Kenobi to commence with the landing of their ground forces on Ryloth.[15]

In order to establish a foothold on Ryloth, Windu instructed Kenobi to lead a detachment of the 212th Attack Battalion on a mission to secure the landing area near the city of Nabat. On Tambor's orders, however, the Separatist battle droids used the local Twi'lek population as living shields to protect their proton cannons. Despite the danger that the cannons posed to the Republic Navy, Windu informed Kenobi that freeing the hostages was a mission priority. After the success of Kenobi's assignment, Windu and his forces landed on the surface of Ryloth and proceeded with the final phase of the campaign—the liberation of the planetary capital city, Lessu.[16]
The liberation of Ryloth moved apace, but the march to the capital was perilous. After sustaining casualties and damage to his All Terrain Tactical Enforcers, Windu decided to enlist the aid of Cham Syndulla, the leader of the local resistance against Separatist occupation. Syndulla was hesitant to align his cause with that of the Republic, fearing Ryloth would only trade one oppressing force for another. Yet the suffering of his people compelled him to communicate with Ryloth's own senator, Orn Free Taa.[17] Windu long detested politics, but was nonetheless a capable diplomat.[2] His skills as a mediator enabled him to guide the corpulent politician and the freedom fighter to a compromise—Taa vowed that the clone army would withdraw from Ryloth after the remaining Separatists were driven away. In return, Syndulla promised to not use his popularity with the people to seize power from Ryloth's democratically-elected senator.[17]
Ryloth parade
With victory on Ryloth, Windu attended the parade held to celebrate the liberation of the Twi'lek homeworld.
The combined forces of Republic clone troopers and Twi'lek freedom fighters laid siege to Lessu, which Tambor was in the process of evacuating, but not without confiscating much of Ryloth's wealth. The attack on the capital was led by both Syndulla and Windu, until the latter broke off from the main fighting in order to prevent Tambor's escape. As a result of the emir's delayed departure, Tambor was left stranded on Ryloth, allowing Windu to capture him at saber-point. Several Separatist bombers made a last ditch attempt to bombard the capital, but their efforts ended in failure as Skywalker and Tano narrowly intercepted and destroyed the enemy starfighters in their respective Delta-7 Aethersprite-class light interceptors.[17]

With the liberation of Lessu and the capture of the Skakoan emir, the campaign concluded in victory for both the Republic and Ryloth. Many Twi'leks gathered in the capital to celebrate their renewed liberty as clone troopers and freedom fighters marched through the city in a triumphant parade. General Windu and Commander Ponds attended the event, as did Syndulla and Senator Taa.[17]
Holocron theft
"You will take us to the holocron… And you will take us now."
―Anakin Skywalker, Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi, using the Force to break Cad Bane's resolve[src]
Communication center
Todo 360 entered the communication center where he briefly encountered several Jedi Knights, including Yoda and Windu.
In the aftermath of the Confederate victory on the planet Felucia, Windu and the Jedi Council reprimanded Tano for her failure to immediately comply with the order to withdraw from the battle. As punishment, they temporarily reassigned her to serve as a guard in the Jedi Archives of the Temple. Shortly afterward, Windu and Yoda discovered that the Temple had been infiltrated by thieves—unknown to the Jedi, Darth Sidious hired the bounty hunter Cad Bane for an assignment to steal one of the Order's holocrons. As Kenobi and Skywalker hunted the intruders, Bane sacrificed his droid, Todo 360, by sending it to the communication center as a bomb. Before the droid could detonate, Windu Force pushed Todo into the ventilation system where it exploded. The distraction worked to Bane's advantage, allowing the mercenary to escape the Temple with a holocron. However, Tano managed to apprehend his partner, Cato Parasitti, who revealed to Windu and the other Jedi that Bane's next target was Bolla Ropal, the keeper of the Kyber memory crystal. Windu deduced the true nature of the theft—the holocron that Bane stole could be used to access the crystal's data, which contained the names and locations of all known Force-sensitive children in the galaxy. With the future of the Jedi Order in jeopardy, the Council dispatched Kenobi to hunt Bane while Skywalker and Tano traveled to the Devaron system to find Ropal.[18]

Skywalker and Tano were unsuccessful in their mission to thwart Bane's theft of the crystal. Knowing that the bounty hunter's next move was to abduct the Force-sensitive children, the Jedi switched to a new tactic—meditation. Windu, Yoda, Kenobi and Skywalker searched through the Force, seeking to identify the children who were in immediate danger from Bane. The Force guided the Jedi to the planets Rodia and Naboo. Kenobi failed to prevent the abduction of the Rodian infant Wee Dunn, however the Gungan child Roo-Roo Page was saved, and Bane was taken into Jedi custody by Skywalker and Tano. Windu personally conducted Bane's interrogation, although initially without success as he sensed that the mercenary's fear of his client outweighed his fear of the Jedi Order. At Tano's suggestion, Windu, Kenobi and Skywalker simultaneously performed the mind trick technique on Bane. Despite the possibility of permanently damaging Bane's mind in the process, the Jedi felt that he had given them no other recourse except to force his compliance for the sake of the Order's future. The experience proved too painful for Bane, who finally relented to the Jedi's demands.[19]
WinduKenobiBlackstall-COTF
Bane led Windu and Kenobi to the holocron and a trap.
Bane brought Windu, Kenobi and Clone Commander CC-2224 to Black Stall Station where the holocron was kept. The Jedi inadvertently trigger the station's defense turrets, however, allowing Bane to leave the space station in an escape pod while Windu and Kenobi defended themselves. Both Jedi Masters ultimately survived the trap and escaped with the holocron just prior to the station's destruction. Simultaneously, Skywalker and Tano tracked the missing infants to the planet Mustafar and were able to rescue them all before they could be used in the schemes of the Dark Lord of the Sith.[19]

Battle of Malastare
"I have a bad feeling about this."
―Mace Windu[src]
Hello beastie
Windu and his forces discovered the Zillo Beast shortly after the Battle of Malastare.
When the Separatists invaded the planet Malastare, homeworld of the Dug species, Windu again took to the field commanding Republic forces with the assistance of Commander Ponds and General Skywalker. Preventing the Separatist conquest of Malastare was not their only objective; the Republic sought to gain access to Malastarian fuel. Doge Nakha Urus, leader of Malastare, agreed to sign a treaty of trade between the Republic and Malastare, provided that the Separatists were first driven off of Malastarian soil by Windu's forces. However, the Republic soon found itself heavily outnumbered upon confronting the Separatist invasion force on the open field of battle.[20]

Despite this, the Republic had a backup plan—the electro-proton bomb, developed by the Republic scientist Doctor Sionver Boll, was designed to neutralize a specific target: the Separatist battle droids. The doctor assured Windu and Chancellor Palpatine—who communicated with Republic forces via hologram—that the bomb posed no threat to organic-based units, such as clone troopers and the Malastarian Dugs. The plan met with the Chancellor's approval, but did little to assuage Windu's concerns. Although the Jedi Master proposed to seek an alternative solution, the bomb's use was authorized by Palpatine and Urus. Upon detonation, the immediate blast incinerated the droids that were closest to the explosion. The subsequent discharge of EMP radiation caused the remaining the droids to shut down, along with every form of machinery within proximity of the overall blast.[20]
Though the experimental bomb succeeded in neutralizing the entire Separatist invasion force in one fell swoop, the surface began to collapse as a result of the explosion, creating a massive sinkhole that began at ground zero and expanded in every direction. A rescue operation soon commenced in order to search for the Republic troops who fell into the sinkhole. After losing communication with the rescue party, Windu and Ponds led a team to ascertain the fate of the survivors. Their investigation ultimately led them to discovering the Zillo Beast—an ancient creature native to Malastare, its species was long believed to be extinct by the Dug population. The beast, awoken by the bomb, chased after Windu and his troops until Skywalker created a distraction by flying maneuvers around it in his Jedi starfighter.[20]
After escaping from the sinkhole, Windu regrouped with Skywalker and Urus in order to develop a strategy to neutralize the Zillo Beast. The Malastarian doge was adamant that the creature should be destroyed—a plan which Palpatine supported in order to ensure the Dugs' cooperation with the Republic's needs for Malastare's fuel. Windu strongly objected on the ground of Jedi morality, however. Due to the possibility that the beast could be the last of its species, the Jedi Master was determined to preserve its life. His value for life ultimately conflicted with Urus' insistence on the creature's extermination. Urus went ahead with his plan upon discovering the harmful effects that Malastarian gas had on the Zillo Beast, prompting Windu to intercede in defense of the creature's life by threatening the doge with his lightsaber.[20]
The situation was ultimately resolved when a group of Republic stun cannon tanks concentrated their fire on the Zillo Beast and, as a result, incapacitated the creature. The Dugs believed that the beast was finally dead when in fact the stun cannons merely rendered it unconscious—long enough for Republic forces to transport the Zillo Beast to Coruscant for scientific research. Though the Dug Council formally ratified Malastare's treaty with the Republic,[20] Windu made no effort to conceal his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to bring the dangerous beast to the galactic capital—a move that the Jedi Master regarded as folly on the Chancellor's part.[2]
Zillo Beast incident
"With respect, Chancellor, I believe this creature could pose any number of dangers. Bringing it here to Coruscant is a mistake."
―Mace Windu, to Sheev Palpatine[src]
Windu returned to Coruscant with the sedated Zillo Beast in tow. As the clone army transported the beast to the Republic Science and Technical Center, Windu again expressed his disapproval of Palpatine's decision to move a dangerous creature to the capital. By then, however, it was clear to him that the Chancellor would not listen to the Jedi Master's counsel on this matter. Palpatine claimed that the research conducted on the Zillo Beast would be beneficial to the Republic war effort, although his reassurance did little to alleviate Windu's concerns about the safety of Coruscant. At Kenobi's suggestion, the Jedi turned to Senator Padmé Amidala in the hopes that she would have more success in reasoning with the Chancellor.[21]

Shortly after its arrival, however, the Zillo Beast escaped from its confinement and proceeded to rampage through the cityscape of the galactic capital. Windu and the other Jedi mobilized Republic forces in order to prevent the beast from causing more damage and casualties on Coruscant. Palpatine, who had ordered the beast's destruction, was caught in its path while attempting to evacuate the Senate Office Building. Windu and the Jedi consequently focused their efforts on saving the Chancellor's life, which ultimately led to the death of the Zillo Beast when Palpatine ordered the Republic gunships to fire Malastarian gas bombs on it.[21]
Senate conspiracy
During the Clone Wars, Senator Rush Clovis of the planet Scipio became a suspected traitor to the Republic. Due to the lack of proof, however, Windu and the Jedi Council instructed Skywalker to recruit Senator Amidala as a spy, believing that their former relationship would enable the Naboo politician to gain the alleged traitor's confidence. Ultimately, the Council was right to be suspicious of Clovis as Amidala discovered proof that her colleague had secretly dealt with the Separatists on behalf of the InterGalactic Banking Clan while pretending to be a Republic loyalist.[22]

Battle of Dantooine
"I've just received a distress signal from our forces on Dantooine. Master Windu's defenses held, but at a great cost to his men. They need medical supplies immediately."
―Ki-Adi-Mundi[src]
Windu personally oversaw the defense of Dantooine against oppositional forces that sought to wrest control of the planet from the Republic. The Jedi Master's forces prevented the fall of Dantooine to enemy control, but also sustained a large number of casualties in the process. After the battle Windu sent a distress signal, which Ki-Adi-Mundi received shortly after the Republic's reconquest of Geonosis, informing the Jedi of his victory while simultaneously requesting medical supplies for his injured soldiers.[23]

Assassination attempt
"Boba was on Geonosis when his father died. He watched as I killed him."
"That would complicate things."
"Indeed."
―Mace Windu and Anakin Skywalker[src]
WinduSkywalkerEndurance
Windu and Skywalker, trapped on the crashed Endurance.
As the war progressed, Boba Fett conspired to assassinate Windu out of vengeance for the death of father, the clone template Jango Fett. Aided by the bounty hunters Aurra Sing, Bossk and Castas, Fett infiltrated a squad of clone cadets during a tour of Windu's starship, the Venator-class Star Destroyer Endurance.[24] Initially, Fett intended to kill Windu by placing an explosive device in the latter's quarters. However, the Jedi Master was called away mere seconds before the bomb was triggered, resulting in the death of a clone trooper. As the Endurance crew searched the vessel for Windu's would-be assassin, the rogue clone amended his plan by sabotaging the Star Destroyer's reactor core, causing the starship to crash into the surface of the planet Vanqor. After escaping the doomed vessel, Windu and Skywalker's search for survivors led them to an escape pod that contained the cadets with the exception of Fett, whom Sing retrieved in Slave I prior to the Jedi's arrival.[24]

In the aftermath of the destruction of the Endurance, Windu and Skywalker traveled to the crash site hoping to find survivors—including Admiral Kilian and CT-411, both of whom opted to remain with the ship as it went down. During the search, Windu chastised Skywalker for encouraging individuality in his droid, the astromech unit R2-D2. Before long, the Jedi generals discovered several dead clones along with signs that they had survived the crash only to be executed shortly after. On the bridge Skywalker discerned a Mandalorian helmet in the rubble. At that moment, Windu remembered both Jango and Boba Fett, leading the Jedi Master to realize that it was the latter who attempted to assassinate him. Although Windu was unable to prevent Skywalker from triggering the bomb within the helmet, he succeeded in saving the younger Jedi's life by pulling him away from the explosion through the Force. The blast caused even more damage to bridge, however, leaving both men trapped and injured under a large pile of debris. Unable to escape on their own, Skywalker instructed R2-D2 to relay their situation to the Jedi Temple. Windu, on the other hand, expressed little faith in the droid's ability to succeed.[25]
Trapped and waiting for a rescue party, Windu began to reflect on his actions at the Battle of Geonosis, particularly his victory over Jango Fett and the fact that Boba witnessed his father's death at Windu's hands. Ultimately, Skywalker's droid returned with Plo Koon, Ahsoka Tano and the clone troopers of Wolfpack. The rescue team successfully retrieved the injured Jedi just prior to the full collapse of the Endurance bridge. Before returning to Coruscant, Windu praised R2-D2 for saving his life, much to Skywalker's surprise.[25]
HallsOfHealing-LT
Skywalker and Windu, recovering in the Jedi Temple's medical bay.
After returning to the Republic capital, Windu and Skywalker recuperated at the Jedi Temple where they initially argued over their next course of action in light of Fett's attempt on their lives. Although Skywalker insisted that the Jedi should hunt the renegade clone and bring him to justice, Windu was content to let the matter go, preferring to not become entangled in a vendetta as Fett was against him. A transmission from Aurra Sing, who revealed the hostages she took from the Endurance, changed the Jedi Master's mind, however. Windu decided to confront Fett and his accomplices upon witnessing Sing's execution of CT-411, but due to his injuries he allowed Koon and Tano to go in his stead. Their mission was a success, resulting in Fett's arrest and the rescue of the remaining hostages. On Coruscant, Windu confronted Fett in person, who regretted his actions on the Endurance, but refused to forgive the Jedi for Jango's death.[26] The unrepentant[2] clone was then sent to prison by Windu.[26]

Following Fett's arrest, Windu attended the funeral of the Rodian senator Onaconda Farr, who was assassinated by his personal aide, Lolo Purs.[27]
Funeral and the brother of Maul
Later in the war, the Jedi Council received a holorecording of the Devaron massacre. Windu and Kenobi observed the footage which revealed the Zabrak warrior Savage Opress whom Kenobi mistook for Darth Maul. Windu informed his colleague that the Zabrak in the recording was not the Sith Lord he fought on Naboo. He further explained that the Zabrak and Maul were Dathomirians of Dathomir, not Iridonia as they previously believed in Maul's case.[28]

Kidnapping of the Chancellor
"Tell me about my target."
"His name is Moralo Eval. Works directly for Count Dooku. Rumor is their plot will be hatched in three revolutions at the festival on Naboo."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Mace Windu[src]
VictoryOnNaboo-Crisis
With Kenobi's aid, Windu and Skywalker intercepted the bounty hunters before they could escape with their valuable hostage.
When rumors reached the Council that the bounty hunter Moralo Eval was planning to abduct Chancellor Palpatine despite his incarceration at the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center, Windu, Yoda, and Kenobi conceived a plan for Kenobi to infiltrate Eval's operation by impersonating the bounty hunter Rako Hardeen. Windu arranged for Skywalker to arrest Kenobi, posing as Hardeen, and have sent to prison. He was then informed that fellow bounty hunter Cad Bane was planning to free Eval.[29] Following Eval, Bane and Kenobi's escape from the detention center, Windu and Yoda rescinded the bounty to ensure that they would continue on their way to Serenno where Count Dooku awaited their arrival.[30]

While Kenobi continued to impersonate Hardeen, Windu accompanied the Supreme Chancellor to his homeworld of Naboo for the Festival of Light. The bounty hunters executed their plan during the ceremony, disabling the ray shield and kidnapping Palpatine. Through Kenobi's intervention, however, Windu and Skywalker were able to apprehend Bane and Eval before they could escape with their prisoner.[31]
Attack on the Temple
"It is the Council's opinion that Padawan Ahsoka Tano has committed sedition against the Republic, and thus she will be expelled from the Jedi Order."
―Mace Windu, pronouncing the Council's decision to expel Ahsoka Tano[src]
ChamberOfJudgement-TWJ
Windu and the Council summoned Padawan Tano to the Chamber of Judgment and deemed her guilty of treason.
Following a terrorist explosion in a hangar of the Jedi Temple, the Council recalled Skywalker and his apprentice to Coruscant. After briefing the two Jedi on the situation, Windu and Yoda assigned them to oversee the Jedi Order's internal investigation. In addition, they suspected that the attack was caused by a rogue Jedi. As neither Skywalker or Tano were present at the time of the bombing, Windu and the Grand Master considered them above suspicion and therefore suited to the task. During the investigation, Skywalker and Tano reported directly to Windu, who informed them that a swift conclusion to the case was imperative as rumors began to circulate within the Senate that the military police could become involved. With the arrest of Letta Turmond, Windu and Yoda concluded that the[32] radical[33] Coruscanti was the main culprit in the bombing of the Temple hangar. While there was no indication at the time of a Jedi's involvement, the incident served to fuel anti-Jedi sentiment among the Republic citizenry—an outcome that concerned Windu.[32]

In the aftermath of Turmond's arrest, Windu attended a funeral ceremony to honor the six Jedi Knights who were killed in the hangar blast. Shortly thereafter, Skywalker's Padawan came under suspicion of being the true mastermind behind the bombing after Turmond was Force-choked to death in her presence.[34] Admiral Wilhuff Tarkin contacted the Council and accused Tano of murdering Turmond as well as several clone troopers during her escape from the Republic Center for Military Operations. The Council endeavored to apprehend the fugitive Padawan, although Windu was concerned by Yoda's decision to send Skywalker after his own apprentice, believing that his emotional connection to Tano would complicate the mission.[35]
The hunt for Tano led to her capture and subsequent confinement in the Jedi Temple. As the Council debated on what to do with her, Tarkin contacted them on the Senate's behalf, imploring the Jedi leadership to expel Tano and surrender her to military custody.[36] Windu was troubled[37] by the Council's options in the matter—to either stand by Tano, as Kenobi insisted; or remove her from the ranks of the Order as the Senate commanded.[36] Ultimately, Windu concurred with Tarkin on the grounds that failing to submit Tano for trial could be regarded as an act of oppposition to the Senate.[37] At Yoda's behest, the young Padawan was taken to the Chamber of Judgment, where five members of the Council, including Windu, reviewed the charges against her and asked for her plea. Tano pleaded innocent and insisted that the Council was being deceived; but as she was unable to confirm the identity of the true perpetrator, Windu announced the Council's decision to revoke Tano's Jedi status and hand her over to the military custody of the Republic.[36]
AhsokaLeavesTheOrder-TWJ
Although Windu proclaimed Tano a greater Jedi because of her ordeal, the former Padawan chose to walk away from the Jedi Order.
After the expulsion was completed, Windu attended Tano's military trial alongside several other members of the Council. Before the verdict could be read, however, Skywalker burst in and revealed the real traitor, Barriss Offee, who confessed to the crimes that Tano had been accused of and scathingly claimed that the Jedi were the ones responsible for the Clone War.[36]

Due to this revelation, Windu and the Council personally attempted to make amends with Tano. In addition to an apology from Plo Koon, who spoke on behalf of the entire Council, Mundi, Tiin and Windu proclaimed Tano a greater Jedi because of her ordeal, which Windu observed as a great trial[37] in her training. But while he and his colleagues were prepared to accept her back into the Order with a promotion to Jedi Knight, Tano declined the offer and instead chose to leave the Temple to search for a new path.[36]
Mission to Bardotta
Windu later accompanied Representative Jar Jar Binks to assist the Bardottan Queen Julia in finding the disappearing Dagoyan Masters. However, Windu's presence was not welcome by the Queen nor the Bardottans. Windu also sensed that the Force was out of balance here. However, when the queen disappeared, Windu assisted the Bardottans and Binks in their search in the catacombs belonging to the Frangawl Cult. When Binks disappeared, Windu tracked him down and rescued Binks from being sacrificed. However, the Frangawl cult leader escaped with queen off-world. Binks promised the Bahk-tov Council that they would find the queen before the prophecy came to be.[38]

TalzinvsWindu
Windu duels Mother Talzin on Zardossa Stix
Windu learned from Binks that the Frangawl cult was extracting the living force from Dagoyan masters, and putting it into a sphere. He surmised that they would do same to Queen Julia. Windu then sensed the orb on Zardossa Stix where Windu sensed her in a city market square. Windu fought with several of the cultists and saved Binks from capture, then stunning one Gundark and killing another. Windu questioned the Gundarks' trainer, who told them that the mysterious "Great Mother" would deal with him. Windu and Binks took an eopie and a dalgo to help in their search, traveling to the Zardossan temple. However, Windu and Binks were then confronted by stone guardians, yet Windu was able to defeat them. He soon confronted the Great Mother, who revealed herself to be the Nightsister Mother Talzin. With Binks's help, Windu was able to prevent Talzin from absorbing the sphere's power and watched as she disappeared.[39]

The truth about the Clone Army
Responding to a mysterious distress call, Master Plo Koon discovered a crashed Republic ship, and found the lightsaber of Sifo-Dyas in the wreckage. This surprised the Council, as Sifo-Dyas's lightsaber had never been found when he was killed over ten years ago. Skywalker and Kenobi were assigned to investigate, and eventually, they discovered that Sifo-Dyas had in fact been murdered by Pyke criminals on orders from Count Dooku rather than the native Felucians he had been sent long ago to negotiate with, as the Council had previously assumed. They also realized that it was Dooku who was actually responsible for the creation of the clone army. The Council was greatly disturbed by this revelation, and did not understand why their own enemy would create an army for them. Windu, however, noted with caution that such a revelation could easily destroy public confidence in the Jedi, the Republic and the war effort. At these words, Yoda decided that they would not inform anyone, even Chancellor Palpatine, of their new discovery, citing the valiant service of the clone soldiers, and the need to bring the war to a swift and decisive end. When Windu asked Yoda if he was sure they were taking the right path, Yoda asserted that it was not the right path, but the only path, stating that for now they had to continue by the Sith Lord's game.[40]

Yoda's mission
"There is great turmoil within Master Yoda."
"Yes, we all sensed it."
"For something to affect Yoda this deeply concerns me… We must keep an eye on our old friend."
"The war has taxed all of us to our limit. I suppose we're just surprised Master Yoda has one."
"I hope it's that simple, but I feel the shadow of something greater on our horizon."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Mace Windu, discussing their concern for Yoda[src]
EpGuide611
Windu and the Council are concerned about the unusually strange behaviour coming from Master Yoda.
Not long afterwards, Yoda started behaving strangely, becoming noticeably distracted and thoughtful during meetings. This surprised and concerned Windu, who sensed great turmoil in Yoda. He voiced his concerns to Obi-Wan Kenobi in a private discussion, and they resolved to keep a closer watch on their old friend. Later, a noticeably uncertain Yoda revealed that he had spoken with the deceased Qui-Gon Jinn. However, everything the Jedi knew about the Force suggested that the ability to retain one's individuality after death was impossible, so the reactions from the Council ranged from concern to skepticism and suspicion. Though they meditated with Yoda for a whole day, they were unable to sense anything. After the failed meditation, Ki-Adi-Mundi suggested that what Yoda was sensing could be a deception by the Sith. Kenobi refused to believe that Yoda could be susceptible to such manipulation, but Windu replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Yoda was not beyond the corruption of the dark side. The ancient Jedi master agreed and submitted himself to medical examination.[41]

Windu, Kenobi and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Yoda was in perfect mental health, even though he was approaching the nine hundredth year of his life. Mundi, who was particularly skeptical of Yoda's claims, suggested the Dark Lord of the Sith could be using Yoda's connection to Dooku to manipulate him, but Kenobi vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Yoda at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema suggested a deprivation ritual for Yoda to reach the source of the voice. During the procedure, Kenobi, Skywalker, Mundi and Plo Koon watched over the small Jedi. Yoda managed to hear Jinn's instruction to go to the Dagobah system before Kenobi noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test.[41]
When Windu asked about the procedure, Kenobi told him that Yoda was sure he had contacted the dead. Mundi asserted that Yoda's claim was impossible, and again voiced his suspicion that Yoda was under attack by the Sith. More concerned than ever, Windu ordered temple guards to keep an eye on Yoda. However, the diminutive Jedi Master soon managed to escape with Skywalker's help and R2-D2's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to Dagobah, a mysterious planet and Moraband, the ancient homeworld of the Sith. Immediately after Yoda's escape, a furious Windu confronted Skywalker, but the younger Jedi countered that, for once, none of what had occurred had been his idea.[41]
On Yoda's return to Coruscant, Windu and Kenobi greeted him, and Windu stated that the Council was eager to hear Yoda's report, but the old Jedi master claimed that there was not much to discuss. When Windu asked him if his journey had given him insight on how to win the war, Yoda told them that he was no longer certain that the Jedi could win the Clone Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Jedi would ultimately triumph over the Sith.[42]
Anaxes
MaceWindu91stReconBadBatch
Mace Windu leading the 91st Recon Corps on Anaxes
"With our shipyards operational again, we can expect more victories on all battlefronts across the galaxy."
―Mace Windu[src]
Later in the war, Windu lead the 91st Recon Corps along with Skywalker and the 501st Legion to the planet Anaxes which was under attack by Admiral Trench. The Separatists had gained the upper hand in the battle despite weeks of battle. At the Republic base, Windu conferred with Skywalker after the droids had over run their main production unit which indicated them losing. 501st Legion Captain Rex and 212th Attack Battalion Commander Cody arrived and Rex shared his theory on why Trench had been winning the battle that he had his algorithm and was using it to win the battle. Windu ordered them to take a small squad of troopers to go behind enemy lines to infiltrate the cyber center.[43]

Following Echo's mission from Skako Minor, Windu debriefed Anakin, Obi-Wan, Rex and Jesse on his plan to retake the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Windu along with Kenobi, lead the assault along with the 501st Legion, 91st Mobile Reconnaissance Corps and 212th Attack Battalion attacking the complex. The battle ended with all other fronts falling to the Republic, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. Windu assisted with deactivating the bomb and managed to save Anaxes. Following the victory, Windu awarded Rex, Clone Force 99 and Echo with medals. [44]
The Dooku assassination attempt
"The question before us now is—who will strike the killing blow?"
"I, ah…may have a suggestion…"
―Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi, on the plan to assassinate Count Dooku[src]
Dark Disciple Cover Detail
Windu sent Asajj Ventress and Quinlan Vos on a mission to assassinate Dooku
Mace Windu and his fellow Jedi Council members watched a live holographic recording of the devastating Separatist attack on Mahranee, the homeworld of the Mahran species. In response, Windu convinced his fellow Jedi Council members to sanction a secret mission to assassinate Count Dooku. At the suggestion of Master Kenobi, the Council recruited Master Quinlan Vos, who was experienced in undercover work, and Dooku's former apprentice Asajj Ventress for this sensitive operation. Ventress agreed to assist Vos with the mission but insisted that the Jedi could only overcome Dooku by training in the ways of the dark side.[45]

Windu's plans unraveled when Dooku managed to best the two Force-sensitive assassins, and captured Vos on Raxus. In Dooku's captivity, Vos was tortured and coerced into embracing the dark side and joining Dooku after learning that Ventress had murdered his late master Tholme. After Ventress failed to rescue Vos, she informed Kenobi that Vos had joined Dooku. Later, the Jedi Council hatched a mission to rescue Vos from Separatist captivity. When Vos' friend Akar-Deshu invited Ventress to a Jedi Council briefing, Windu reacted with hostility to the dark sider's presence and announced his intent to arrest her on the spot.[45]
However, Masters Kenobi and Yoda defended Ventress and allowed her to explain, causing Windu to react with anger upon learning that Ventress had instructed Vos in the ways of the dark side. Ventress responded by reminding the Jedi Master that he had assigned Vos the mission in the first place. After the Council was satisfied that Ventress had abandoned the Sith ways, they agreed to pardon her in exchange for helping to rescue Vos from Dooku. The rescue mission was successful and the Jedi and Ventress succeeded in rescuing Vos. Unknown to the Jedi, Vos had become a double-agent working for Dooku in an attempt to gain Dooku's trust so that he could learn the identity of the mysterious Darth Sidious. Vos planned to kill the two Sith Lords.[45]
Following the rescue, Windu was present during a Jedi Council meeting which assigned Master Vos on a mission to obtain supplies from a Separatist supply storage base. However, Vos sabotaged the operation by destroying the supplies. Master Windu also assigned Vos and Kenobi on a mission to destroy a Separatist listening post on the planet Vanqor. Vos used his position within the Jedi Order to leak information about the operation to Dooku; allowing the Separatists to abandon the base before the Jedi arrived.[45]
After these two incidents, Windu voiced his suspicions about Vos to his fellow Council members. After Master Yoda discerned that Vos had indeed fallen to the dark side, Windu suggested executing him, an idea that most of the other Council members supported, but after pleas from Kenobi, they ultimately decided to test Vos' loyalties by sending him on a mission to kill Count Dooku. During the briefing, Windu also gave Kenobi and Skywalker orders that they were to kill Vos in the event that he failed to kill the Separatist leader. As expected, Vos failed to kill Dooku and instead demanded that the Sith Lord lead him to Sidious. As a result, Kenobi and Skywalker apprehended Vos and Dooku and imprisoned them aboard the Venator-class Star Destroyer Vigilance. Windu and the other Council members learned of this development via hologram.[45]
Shortly later, Dooku and Vos managed to escape the Vigilance with the unwitting help of Asajj Ventress, leading to the events of the Second battle of Christophsis. During the fighting, Ventress died trying to protect Vos from Dooku's Force lightning attack. Despite being goaded by Dooku, Vos did not kill the Separatist leader since he realized that this would lead to the dark side. Vos was then recaptured by Kenobi and Skywalker who brought him back to Coruscant. During a subsequent Council meeting, Windu listened to Vos' confession and accepted Kenobi's report that Ventress had given her life to safe Vos from Dooku. After deeming that Vos had returned to the light side, Windu and his Jedi colleagues agreed to pardon him while Kenobi, who argued that the order to assassinate Dooku was immoral and the cause of Vos' fall, agreed to observe the redeemed Jedi until he earned back the Council's trust.[45]
Tracking Darth Maul
"Stand down in the name of the Republic… This has gone far enough, Dooku."
―Mace Windu, to Darth Maul and Count Dooku[src]
Mace Windu Ord Mantell
Windu oversaw the hunt for Darth Maul, believing that his capture could help to end the Clone Wars.
In the aftermath of a battle between the Separatists and Shadow Collective, Chancellor Palpatine informed Windu that Count Dooku and Darth Maul were seen near Ord Mantell. Acting on the Chancellor's information, Windu led a force of clone troopers—alongside fellow generals Kenobi, Tiplee, and Aayla Secura—to the battle site in the hopes of ending the war by capturing both Sith. After investigating the area, they found the helmet of a Mandalorian super commando which led Windu to confirm that the alliance between Prime Minister Almec's government and the criminal underworld remained intact. Following this, the Jedi tracked Maul to Vizsla Keep 09 and proceeded with a direct assault on the Mandalorian outpost. During the attack, Windu and Secura dueled with Maul while Dooku fought Kenobi and Tiplee, who was ultimately slain by the former Jedi Master.[46]

Despite their efforts, both Sith Lords were able to escape from the outpost with the support of Maul's commandos. In the aftermath of the battle, Windu reported to the Chancellor and conveyed his suspicion that Dooku and Maul were master and apprentice—a theory which led him to believe that Dooku may have been the second Sith that the Jedi had been searching for since the Naboo crisis.[46]
Duel with Darth Sidious
"I sense a plot to destroy the Jedi. The dark side of the Force surrounds the Chancellor."
―Mace Windu, expressing his concern for the future of the Order[src]
Duel on Coruscant
Windu confronted Palpatine upon discovering his true identity as Darth Sidious, the Sith Lord responsible for the Clone Wars.
Following the Battle of Coruscant,[9] Windu was disturbed by Chancellor Palpatine's decision to appoint Anakin Skywalker as his representative on the Jedi High Council.[2] Though the Council obliged the Chancellor, hoping to use the young Jedi as a spy against him,[9] Windu warned his colleagues that it was dangerous to pair Skywalker with Palpatine.[2] Skywalker reacted with anger to the Council's decision to withhold the status of Jedi Master from him, but was quickly put in his place by Windu.[47] At this time, the Council grew doubtful that Palpatine would surrender his wartime powers.[9] As such, Windu agreed that the Chancellor would have to be removed by force and further added that the Council would have to take control of the Senate[2] in order to maintain peace during the transitional period.[9]

With the death of General Grievous during the Battle of Utapau, Windu was determined to see the Senate restored to its former position prior to the Clone Wars.[9] By then, however, Skywalker revealed to Windu that Sheev Palpatine was in fact Darth Sidious, the mastermind behind the war and the second Sith that the Jedi had been searching for since the Naboo crisis. Knowing that the future of the Jedi Order was in grave danger, Windu and three other Jedi Masters—Agen Kolar, Saesee Tiin, and Kit Fisto—raced to Palpatine's office and attempted to arrest the Supreme Chancellor.[2] Their confrontation led to a lightsaber duel in which Sidious killed Kolar, Tiin and Fisto with ease.[9] Despite the loss of his comrades, Windu continued to fight and ultimately prevailed in the duel,[47] disarming the Sith Lord in the process.[9] However, Skywalker, who had followed Windu despite being told by the latter to remain in the Jedi Temple, begged the Jedi Master to spare the Sith Lord's life, believing that Sidious had the power to save Padmé Amidala from death.[2] Although Windu originally intended to arrest Sidious, the Jedi Master concluded that he was too dangerous to be left alive, given his control over the Senate and the courts. However, before Windu could deliver the killing strike, Skywalker intervened by severing Windu's forearm,[9] enabling Sidious to unleash a torrent of Force lightning that sent the Jedi Order's great champion plummeting to his death.[2]
Legacy
"Master Windu spoke highly of your heroics at the Battle of Lessu."
"Ah. Mace Windu. Outnumbered 100 to one, we charged across Lessu's energy bridge to certain doom. We would not be stopped. They named that attack in songs, 'The Hammer of Ryloth.'"
―Kanan Jarrus and Cham Syndulla[src]
Triumphant fighters on Ryloth
Though reviled by the Empire, Windu was fondly remembered by the Twi'leks for his role in the liberation of Ryloth.
The name of Mace Windu would later be reviled by those who believed the line of the Galactic Empire. The Empire taught in their history books that Mace Windu was the leader of a "criminal gang" that interfered with a legal execution taking place on Geonosis, thus sparking the Clone Wars.[48]

However, Windu's reputation was not completely tarnished by Imperial propaganda. During the Age of the Empire, the people of Ryloth still remembered his exploits and heroic deeds in the Battle of Lessu, though, and they immortalized his name together with Cham Syndulla's in songs about the battle.[49]
Personality and traits
"Isn't protecting the innocent the very definition of what it means to be a Jedi? We are failing the Republic and its citizens. We must stop this—now."
―Mace Windu, emphasizing the Jedi Order's duty to protect the Republic and its citizens[src]
Masters of the Order
With Yoda's support, Mace Windu strove to guide the Jedi Order during the turbulent last years of the Galactic Republic.
Mace Windu was a bald human[3] male[2] who had brown eyes, dark skin,[5] and a height of 1.92 meters. As a senior member of the Jedi High Council, Windu sought to protect the Jedi Order from the corruption and unrest that undermined the Galactic Republic from within. Noted for his grim demeanor, Windu held corrupt politicians and rebellious Jedi in low regard. He had very little patience for the failures of the Galactic Senate and was disdainful of the Jedi who disobeyed the will of the Council. A staunch traditionalist, Windu was long regarded as the great champion of the Jedi Order. His commitment to the Order's ancient traditions often put him at odds with less orthodox Jedi, such as Qui-Gon Jinn and especially Anakin Skywalker.[2] In their first encounter, Windu was unimpressed with Skywalker.[50] He was not only skeptical of Skywalker's status as the Chosen One, but also felt that he was too old to dedicate himself to the ways of the Jedi and the Force without the distraction of his emotional attachments. Although he never stopped doubting Skywalker,[2] Windu came to regard him as an exceptionally skilled, yet tempestuous Jedi.[2][4] However, his ill-concealed distrust had an adverse effect on his relationship with Skywalker—a sentiment which also extended to Skywalker's apprentice Ahsoka Tano, whom Windu regarded as another rebellious Jedi.[2]

When Tano was framed for treason, Windu supported the Council's decision to revoke her status as a Jedi and turn her over to the Republic for a military tribunal.[36] While their verdict pained him,[37] Windu concurred with Tarkin's position on the matter—an internal Jedi trial would appear biased, and to protect Tano would be to defy the wishes of the Senate. After her innocence was proven, however, Windu joined his colleagues in offering to welcome Tano back into the Order, and proclaimed her a greater Jedi because of her ordeal, which he observed as the great trial in her path to Jedi Knighthood.[36]
Despite his disapproval of maverick Jedi and the avarice of the Senate, Windu was very loyal to both the Republic and the Jedi Order to the point where he bravely risked his life for both institutions throughout the Clone Wars.[2] Even as the Jedi became officers in the Grand Army of the Republic,[4] Windu remained extremely protective of the Order's independence and jealously guarded its interests against external interference.[9]
Though largely obstinate to anything that contradicted his views, the Clone Wars forced Windu to rethink some of his beliefs and preconceptions. Prior to the Battle of Geonosis, he refused to believe that even a former Jedi such as Count Dooku could be capable of arranging the assassination of another being. The onset of the Clone Wars caused Windu to realize that his old friend was more than a political idealist—he was an enemy of the Republic and the Order that he once served. As the war progressed, Windu was compelled to engage in politics. Although he disliked the system, he nonetheless proved to be an able diplomat during the Ryloth campaign in which he successfully mediated a truce between two rivals, Senator Orn Free Taa and Cham Syndulla. In spite of how the conflict forced the Jedi into the role of generals and warriors, Windu held fast to the Jedi Code for the most part. He refused to support the Dugs of Malastare when they proposed to kill the Zillo Beast, which he correctly presumed to be the last of its species.[2] He also refused to seek retribution against Boba Fett after the latter attempted to assassinate him.[26]
Although Windu was noted for his grim demeanor,[2] he was highly compassionate towards his fellow Jedi, the citizens of the Republic,[45] and also the clone troopers under his command.[24] His own survival after the Battle of Geonosis was of little comfort to him—war had replaced peace and the Jedi, once the peacekeepers of the Republic, were forced to adopt the mantle of warriors and military leaders.[2] Nevertheless, Windu sought to bring the conflict to a swift conclusion in order to minimize the level of death and destruction wrought by the Clone Wars. However, as the casualties continued to rise, Windu became increasingly vexed by the Order's inability to end the war. In his view, the Jedi were failing the Republic and the people that they were sworn to protect. For this reason he convinced the Council to form a plan to assassinate Dooku, believing that the traitor's death would destabilize the Separatists and enable the Jedi to finally end the Clone Wars. Although assassination contradicted Jedi philosophy, Windu asserted that it was also against the Jedi way to allow innocent people to suffer needlessly. After learning that the mission had failed and the assigned assassin, Jedi Master Quinlan Vos, had been captured, Windu placed the blame firmly on Vos's partner, former Sith apprentice Asajj Ventress, disregarding the fact that it had been his idea to assassinate Dooku in the first place. Even after Ventress helped rescue Vos, Windu continued to distrust the former Sith, though he did accept the Council's decision to pardon her, albeit grudgingly. When Yoda confirmed that Vos had indeed fallen to the dark side, Windu proposed having him executed, an idea he believed to be justified because Vos's treachery was potentially endangering innocent lives. However, after pleas from Kenobi, he agreed to give Vos a chance to redeem himself. After Vos was redeemed thanks to Ventress's sacrifice, Windu was initially skeptical of how her actions had changed the outcome of the ordeal, but ultimately allowed Vos to rejoin the Order.[45]
Windu worked closely with Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine, often acting as an adviser to the leader of the Senate throughout the Clone Wars.[12] As time went on, the Jedi champion grew increasingly suspicious of Palpatine's intentions. During the Zillo Beast's transportation to Coruscant, Windu strongly disagreed with the Chancellor's decision to bring the dangerous creature to the Republic capital.[2] Though wary of Palpatine, Windu remained committed to his duty as a Jedi, which required him to ensure the safety of the Chancellor. Yet even this responsibility was a source of conflict as, during a visit to Naboo, Palpatine voiced his concern that the level of security accompanying him was excessive. Windu interjected by stating that no amount of security was overkill where the Chancellor's safety was concerned.[31]
Near the end of the war, Windu's trust and respect for Palpatine had all but evaporated. Following Dooku's death, Windu grew concerned over whether Palpatine would relinquish his wartime authority as he once promised. At the same time, Windu sensed that the dark side of the Force surrounded the Chancellor. By now he was certain that a plot was in motion to destroy the Jedi Order. When Skywalker confirmed that Palpatine's true identity was Darth Sidious, Windu was determined to take swift and decisive action against the Sith Lord, realizing that the fate of the Jedi Order hung in the balance. Although he initially attempted to arrest Sidious, Windu eventually concluded that it was impossible to seek justice through the Republic's failed system. He therefore decided to end Sidious's life before the latter could succeed in his plan to fully take over the Republic, despite Skywalker's insistence that killing the Sith Lord—disarmed and seemingly beaten—was against the Jedi Code due to the circumstances. However, in concentrating all of his attention on preventing the return of Sith oppression, Windu failed to anticipate Skywalker's intervention, resulting in the demise of the Jedi Order's champion.[2]
Powers and abilities
"I think it is time we inform the Senate that our ability to use the Force has diminished."
"Only the Dark Lord of the Sith knows of our weakness. If informed the Senate is, multiply our adversaries will."
―Mace Windu and Yoda[src]
Superconductingloop
Mace Windu redirected Darth Sidious' Force lightning back to its source by using his lightsaber to create a superconducting loop.
Mace Windu was a powerful Jedi Master who possessed highly advanced skills in both lightsaber combat and Force abilities. As a duelist, Windu favored Form VII—also known as Juyo or Vaapad, the seventh form was considered the most aggressive and unpredictable version of the art of lightsaber combat. Though more prominent among dark side users, Windu was able to master the form without falling to the corrupting influence of the dark side.[51] In combat Windu demonstrated his skills as a duelist against Mother Talzin[39] and even Darth Sidious, the Dark Lord of the Sith. In the case of the latter, Windu not only survived Sidious' initial assault, which resulted in the deaths of three Jedi Masters,[9] but ultimately prevailed against the Sith in the fight itself. Following an intense, but relatively short duel between the Dark Lord and the Jedi Order's champion, Windu disarmed and cornered the seemingly defeated Sidious.[2]

Windu was also highly adept at deflecting incoming blaster shots with his lightsaber. During the Battle of Geonosis, Windu charged towards Jango Fett while simultaneously deflecting his fire before ultimately disarming and decapitating the bounty hunter in a swift motion. Afterward, he continued to utilize his skills at blaster deflection against an overwhelming number of battle droids, which enabled him to survive long enough until Yoda and the clone army arrived and turned the tide of the battle in the Republic's favor.[2] Throughout the Clone Wars, Windu continued to rely on this defensive technique when leading Republic forces on the frontlines, especially during the Ryloth campaign.[17] In addition to blaster shots, Windu could use his lightsaber to block a Force lightning attack, which he could also redirect back to its source in a superconducting loop.[9]
Mind-trick combined
Combining his powers with Skywalker and Kenobi, Windu sought to compel Cad Bane's cooperation by way of the Force.
As a Force user, Windu was proficient in various forms of telekinesis, which he could utilize as both attacks and defenses. He was capable of summoning his lightsaber, as demonstrated on Geonosis when he quickly reclaimed his Jedi weapon by way of the Force before Fett could prevent this.[4] On Ryloth he used the Force to telekinetically pull battle droids in his direction, rendering them vulnerable to a fatal lightsaber attack. He was also powerful enough to levitate individuals, such as two clone troopers whose lives he saved by using the Force to prevent them from falling to their deaths. In addition to the offensive and defensive applications of the Force, Windu could use his connection to the Force to enhance his physical capabilities, allowing him to engage in acrobatics and land jumps from high places without sustaining injuries.[17]

Windu Lightsaber DB
Mace Windu's purple-bladed lightsaber.
Windu's abilities with the Force extended to mind control, a Jedi technique that allowed the user to exert a considerable amount of influence over weak-minded individuals. Against a person of greater willpower than the average being, however, Windu was forced to combine his effort with Skywalker and Kenobi in order to force Cad Bane's cooperation. Although the initial attempt failed, their combined use of the "mind trick" technique caused Bane to experience significant discomfort, which nearly damaged his mind in the process.[19]

Behind the scenes
Samuel L. Jackson portrayed Mace Windu in the prequel trilogy and he returned to voice the character in the Star Wars: The Clone Wars film. In the The Clone Wars TV series, his voice was provided by Terrence Carson, who had also played the role in various Legends animation and video games. Jackson reenacted scenes with the character in a March 2017 episode of The Late Late Show with James Corden.[52]

Jackson requested George Lucas that his character be given a purple lightsaber because he wanted to be able to find himself in the Geonosis battle scene in Attack of the Clones. He reasoned that since Windu is the second most powerful Jedi after Yoda, Windu should have a lightsaber of a different color from the customary red, blue, and green.[53]

http://starwars.wikia.com/wiki/Obi-Wan_Kenobi
Obi-Wan Kenobi, later known as Ben Kenobi during his exile, was a Force-sensitive human male Jedi Master who served the Galactic Republic. He was mentor to both Anakin Skywalker and his son, Luke, training them in the ways of the Force.

Born on the planet Stewjon, Kenobi was taken as the Padawan learner of Qui-Gon Jinn. Kenobi became the first Jedi in a millennium to defeat a Sith Lord when he defeated Darth Maul during the Battle of Naboo. During the battle, Jinn was mortally wounded by Maul, and perished in Kenobi's arms. At Jinn's behest, Kenobi took Anakin Skywalker to be his own Padawan, training him during the decade leading up to the Clone Wars.
During the Clone Wars, Skywalker was made a Jedi Knight while Kenobi (as a result of his military successes in the Outer Rim) was granted the title of Master and named to the Jedi Council. The two Jedi fought alongside each other as generals many times. In the last days of the Clone Wars, Skywalker turned to the dark side, betraying the Jedi. Skywalker's new Sith Master, Supreme Chancellor Palpatine, used Order 66 to destroy the Jedi Order, though Kenobi survived and reunited with another survivor, Grand Master Yoda. Kenobi confronted Skywalker, who had now taken the name Darth Vader, on Mustafar, and the two dueled. Kenobi emerged the victor, gravely wounding Vader and remorsefully leaving him for dead. However, as Palpatine established the Galactic Empire in place of the Galactic Republic, Vader was rehabilitated, though he was forced to rely on a cybernetic suit for life support. Kenobi went into exile on Tatooine, where he would watch over Vader's newborn son, Luke Skywalker, who he took to live with his aunt and uncle, Beru and Owen Lars.
Seventeen years later, he eventually confronted his old enemy Maul, who he again defeated in a brief duel. As the former Sith lay dying in Kenobi's arms, the two finally made peace, and Maul stated that Luke would avenge them both.
Two years after the death of Maul, Kenobi received a message via R2-D2 from Leia Organa asking for help in the Rebel Alliance's fight against the Empire. The droid contained the plans to the Death Star, a battle station created by the Empire capable of destroying planets, and the plans needed to be taken to Bail Organa on Alderaan. After Luke Skywalker's aunt and uncle were killed by Imperial forces searching for the plans, Skywalker agreed to join Kenobi on this mission and be trained as a Jedi. The pair were taken to Alderaan by Han Solo, only for them to discover that the planet had been destroyed by the Death Star. Their ship, the Millennium Falcon, was captured by the Death Star's tractor beam, and Kenobi was confronted by Darth Vader. Vader and Kenobi dueled again, and Kenobi allowed Vader to kill him so that Luke and his companions could escape the Death Star.
In the following years, as Luke continued fighting for the Rebel Alliance, Kenobi continued to give him guidance as a Force spirit, including directing Luke to the planet Dagobah, where Luke received training from one of Obi-Wan's Masters, Yoda.
Contents[show]
BiographyEdit
Early LifeEdit
"You still have much to learn, my young apprentice."
―Qui-Gon Jinn — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Qui-Gon Jinn Portrait
Kenobi was trained by Qui-Gon Jinn.
A human male from Stewjon,[5] Obi-Wan Kenobi was born 57 years before the Battle of Yavin.[2] A Force-sensitive individual, he was taken to the Jedi Temple on Coruscant to be trained as a Jedi[5] within six months of his birth. [13] When Kenobi was a youngling, he underwent training with Grand Master Yoda before being assigned as Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn's Padawan learner.[5] who would teach him there was "a strength and nobility in restraint".[14]

Protecting Satine KryzeEdit
"You and Satine have a history."
"An extended mission when I was younger. Master Qui-Gon and I spent a year on Mandalore protecting the duchess from insurgents who had threatened her world. They sent Bounty hunters after us. We were always on the run, living hand-to-mouth, never sure what the next day would bring."
―Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
DuchessSatine-SWE
Satine Kryze.
Prior to the Invasion of Naboo, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon spent a year on the planet Mandalore protecting Duchess Satine Kryze from insurgents who were threatening her world. Bounty hunters were sent after them, forcing them to always be on the run and live hand to mouth, never knowing what the next day would bring them. During that time, they had an incident with a swarm of venom-mites on Draboon, where Kenobi carried Kryze to safety, only to fall and drop the Duchess, who acquired a scar then. Obi-Wan fell in love with Satine during his stay on Mandalore, but despite his feelings toward her, he continued with his training and was reassigned. Kenobi regretted leaving her, but ultimately followed the Jedi Code he had sworn to live by.[15]

Invasion of NabooEdit
"I have a bad feeling about this."
"I don't sense anything."
"It's not about the mission, Master. It's something elsewhere…elusive."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Qui-Gon Jinn — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Obi-Wan Padawan braid
Kenobi during the invasion of Naboo.
By the time Jinn considered Kenobi to be ready for his trials, they were sent by Supreme Chancellor Finis Valorum to negotiate with the Trade Federation, who had set up a blockade around the planet of Naboo. However, negotiations did not take place as Viceroy Nute Gunray instead sent B1 battle droids and droidekas to kill the two Jedi, but they escaped to Naboo's surface by stowing away on separate landing craft.

On Naboo, Kenobi found Jinn in the company of Gungan Jar Jar Binks, who reluctantly led the two Jedi to Otoh Gunga, where they met with the Gungan leader Boss Nass. Though unable to convince the Gungans to help the humans of Naboo, Jinn influenced Nass to give them a transport to allow them to reach Theed. Piloting the transport through the planet's core, Kenobi, Jinn and Binks reached Theed only to discover that the Trade Federation had already taken control of the city. After rescuing Queen Amidala and several others, the Jedi took Amidala off of Naboo in her starship in an attempt to reach Coruscant with news of the invasion. During the escape, the ship's hyperdrive was damaged, which prevented them from going straight to Coruscant and forced them to land on Tatooine for repairs.[10]
NiceToMeetYouFutureMassMurderer-TPM
Kenobi meets Anakin Skywalker.
After landing, Kenobi stayed behind on the ship, while Jinn, Amidala (disguised as a handmaiden), Binks and R2-D2 went to look for a new hyperdrive unit. While looking for it, Jinn discovered Anakin Skywalker, from whom he retrieved a blood sample and had the data sent to Kenobi on the ship. The Padawan, then, found that the boy's midichlorian count was the highest of any Jedi. When Jinn arrived, accompanied by Skywalker, Darth Maul's attack prompted them to escape to Coruscant at once.[10]

Upon their arrival on the planet, Jinn and Kenobi went directly to the Jedi Council to report on the mysterious attacker, whom Jinn believed to be a Sith Lord. After being briefed on what to do about their mysterious attacker, Jinn discussed about Skywalker with the Council, believing him to be the Chosen One. Nevertheless, the Council was determined that the boy not be trained. However, Jinn persevered, telling them that he would take the boy as his padawan, despite the Jedi Code's restrictions, but Kenobi insisted he was ready to take the trials, and his master agreed. Instead of discussing the matter further, Mace Windu sent the pair back to Naboo to protect the Queen and also as an attempt to lure out the mysterious assailant.[10]
Kenobi Maul clash
Obi-Wan Kenobi fighting Darth Maul after his Master was impaled.
After returning to Naboo, Binks located the Gungans and Amidala, revealing herself to the true Queen, begged Boss Nass to provide assistance in fighting the droid armies of the Trade Federation. Boss Nass agreed to fight the droids as a diversion, while the Queen's forces slipped into Theed and captured Gunray. However, they soon encountered Maul once again and engaged in a duel with him biding time for Amidala to reach the throne room. During the duel with Maul, Kenobi was separated from his master and forced to watch as Maul impaled Jinn with his double-bladed lightsaber so, when the opportunity arose, Kenobi retaliated in rage against the Sith. However, the Dathomirian gained the upper hand, knocking Kenobi into a nearby shaft where he was just barely able to grab onto a knob jutting out from the side before falling to his death. Despite his predicament, Kenobi was able to use his master's lightsaber to cut the Sith in half, whose severed body fell down the shaft, presumably dead. Kenobi then ran to his master's side and promised a dying Jinn that he would train Skywalker.[10]

Master of the Chosen OneEdit
The first yearsEdit
Yoda: "Confer on you the level of Jedi Knight, the Council does. But agree with your taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not."
Kenobi: "Qui-Gon believed in him."
Yoda: "The Chosen One, the boy may be. Nevertheless, grave danger, I fear, in his training."
―Yoda and Obi-Wan Kenobi — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
You will be a Jedi
Kenobi and Skywalker at Jinn's funeral.
Following the end of the Battle of Naboo, Kenobi was promoted to the rank of Jedi Knight by the Council, with Yoda reluctantly accepting his decision to train Skywalker. Kenobi was later present during Jinn's funeral, where he informed the boy that he would become a Jedi. Later on, Kenobi, alongside his new Padawan and several members of the Jedi Council, took part in a victory celebration in Theed.[10]

Sometime after that, Kenobi and Skywalker traveled to the planet Ilum so that Skywalker could build his first lightsaber;[16] after its construction, Kenobi said to him "Anakin, this weapon is your life."[17][18]
During one of their many adventures, Kenobi fell into a nest of gundarks, prompting Skywalker to rescue him.[11]
Three years after the Battle of Naboo, Skywalker sought to impress his peers at the Jedi Temple. During a training session, he defeated a training droid, which he had programmed to mimic the appearance of the Sith of Naboo. All the while Mace Windu, Kenobi and Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine watched—the latter of which was impressed.[19] Sometime later, Skywalker struggled to learn the skill of taming creatures when Kenobi told him that the Chancellor wanted to see him. The two arrived at the his office, where Palpatine requested that Skywalker accompany him on an errand, declining Kenobi's company.[20]
Upon Skywalker's return to the Jedi Temple, he confided in Kenobi that he wished to leave the Order, feeling uncomfortable at the prospect of his entire life being decided when he was only nine years old, and surrendered his lightsaber to his master. Though Kenobi took the weapon, he pleaded Skywalker to reconsider.[21]
Mission to Carnelion IVEdit
"The road lies before you, Anakin Skywalker. Will you walk it alone?"
"No, Master. As a Jedi. If you'll show me the way."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker[src]
Carnelion IV
Obi-Wan traveled to Carnelion IV with his padawan Anakin Skywalker.
Before Skywalker could give his definite answer, at Yoda's behest, both student and master responded to a mysterious distress signal from the supposedly-dead world of Carnelion IV that specifically called for Jedi intercession. They began their journey to the coordinates, but their shuttle was damaged due to the planet's atmospheric debris field and the two had to eject from the doomed vessel, landing below the Celadon Sea. Not too long afterwards, they came to be aware of there being life on the planet as a sky battle raged over them, and Kenobi returned his lightsaber to him so that he could defend himself. As one of the combatant airships began to fall, Skywalker and Kenobi saved its two-person crew by delaying the crash.[19]

The survivors, Kolara and Mother Pran, were unaware of the distress signal and who the Jedi were.[19] Kenobi was then able to use a mind trick on Pran to lower her weapons. However, they came under attack by the other airship. Kenobi then used his lightsaber to destroy the airship. Kenobi then stopped the pilot, Grecker from shooting at Skywalker, Pran and Kolara. After Skywalker destroyed their blasters, Kenobi then pulled their knives away. Kenobi reasoned with Greckeker, Kolara and Pran that they need to get to safety. As they made their way, they came across Corpse-leeches. Kenobi and Skywalker then drew their lightsabers and tried to use the force to connect with them to no avail. Kenobi and the others then boarded an airship.[20]
Corpse-leeches
War on the planet Carnelion IV.
Kenobi then refused to accept to give them the location of the distress signal. He also told Grecker that Skywalker was not his son, but his Padawan at the dying request of his master. Kenobi and Grecker then defended the airship against the corpse-leeches. However, Pran and Kolara took Skywalker with them and abandoned the airship. Kenobi was then left behind on the airship as Pran destroyed it.[22]

Kenobi and Grecker were then able to jump off the airship before it crashed. Kenobi was then able to use the force to make the creatures understand him. Kenobi then asked Grecker to tell him where Skywalker was taken to. Grecker told him that he did not know where the open were. Kenobi then decided to go after him with Grecker after getting air masks on. Kenobi and Grecker then found the location of the distress signal. They then came under attack by a creature. Grecker then fired a flare. Kenobi and Grecker then fought until a masked man came out and let them in. Kenobi was able to get inside before Grecker closed the door. The man, Sera, then showed Kenobi his collection of his world's remnants. Kenobi was then told that Sera was the one who sent the distress signal. He then told Kenobi about his collection of relics and how both the open and closed wanted him dead.[21]
Kenobi then learned about how Sera sent the signal and learned about both the Jedi and Sith. Kenobi and Sera then went to the roof to watch as Grecker's forces attacked his fortress. Despite Sera's pleas for Kenobi to kill them, Kenobi told her that the Jedi spare everyone. Kenobi then spoke with Grecker and convinced him to stop their attack. However, Mother Pran attacked with her machines. Kenobi was then saved by Skywalker. Kenboi then took Skywalker to the Sera's communication unit. There, Skywalker was able to send out a signal off-planet. Republic and Jedi forces arrived where they ended the conflict.[23]
Wiki-shrinkable This article is a stub. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
Separatist CrisisEdit
Protecting Senator AmidalaEdit
"You know I don't like it when you do that."
"Sorry Master. I forgot you don't like flying."
"I don't mind flying, but what you're doing is suicide."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker[src]
Anakin Padme Reunite
Kenobi and his Padawan meets Padme Amidala
Following an assassination attempt on Senator Amidala on Coruscant and their return from a border dispute on Ansion, the Jedi Council sent—at the behest of Supreme Chancellor Sheev Palpatine—Kenobi and Skywalker to protect the Senator from future attacks. Kenobi sensed his apprentice's anxiety and warned Skywalker of over-stepping their duties, only to be told later of Amidala's plan to use herself as a bait.[11]

That night, Zam Wesell attempted to kill the Senator with venomous kouhun, but her plot was foiled and Kenobi used her probe droid to find the Wesell. Assisted by Skywalker's arrival in a speeder, they pursued the bounty hunter together through Coruscant until her speeder crashed outside a nightclub. The Jedi followed her in, realizing she was a changeling; however, Kenobi soon found Wesell and cut her arm off with his lightsaber before she could shoot him. Before she could tell the Jedi who she was working for, Wesell was shot and killed by a toxic dart fired by Jango Fett.[11]
Obiwanarchives
Kenobi in the archives.
Subsequently, Kenobi and Skywalker were sent on separate mission by the Council—while he continued an investigation on Amidala's aggressors, Skywalker would protect her on Naboo. Despite thinking his Padawan was not prepared for his first solo mission, he abided by Council's request. Kenobi, then, took the toxic dart to his friend Dexter Jettster, who told him that it was a Kamino saberdart. Using Dex's information about Kamino, Kenobi visited the Archives, but he was unable to locate the system. When he asked Jocasta Nu about it, she surmised that the system must not exist since it was not in the archives. Unconvinced, Kenobi visited Master Yoda, who was teaching younglings, and the two agreed that someone had erased the files on Kamino from the Archives, and that Kenobi needed to visit the location of the lost planet.[11]

Discovery of the Clone ArmyEdit
"I have successfully made contact with the Prime Minister of Kamino. They are using a bounty hunter named Jango Fett to create a clone army."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Mace Windu and Yoda, via hologram[src]
Obi-Wan on Kamino
Kenobi meeting with the Kaminoans.
Upon arriving on Kamino, Kenobi was greeted by the Kaminoan Taun We who told the Jedi that they had been expecting him. She took Obi-Wan to Prime Minister Lama Su, who said Sifo-Dyas would have been proud of the army they had created in accordance with his request—to create a clone army for the Republic. Kenobi was then shown the clones' prowess and growth, and was told that the original template was Jango Fett. After asking to meet Fett, Taun We took Kenobi to Fett's quarters, where the Jedi Knight asked the bounty hunter questions concerning any recent visits to Coruscant.[11]

Fight on Kamino
Kenobi engaging Jango Fett on Kamino.
After their meeting, Jango and his clone son, Boba Fett, attempted to flee Kamino in the bounty hunter's ship, Slave I. Obi-Wan confronted Jango, and the two fought on the landing platform. At the end of the battle, Obi-Wan fell off the platform, and Jango believed he had fallen into the sea. However, Obi-Wan managed to catch hold of a bridge, and he returned to the platform to see Slave I taking off with just enough time for Obi-Wan to attach a homing beacon to Jango's hull.[11]

Capture on GeonosisEdit
"What if i told you that the Republic is now under the control of the Dark Lord of the Sith?"
"No, it's not possible. The Jedi would aware of it."
"The Dark Side of the Force has clouded their vision, my friend. Hundreds of senators are under the influence of a Sith Lord called Darth Sidious. [...] You must join me, Obi-Wan. And together, we can destroy the Sith!"
"I will never join you, Dooku."
―Count Dooku and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Geonosian containment field
Kenobi as prisoner on Geonosis.
Kenobi pursued the Slave I in his starfighter all the way to Geonosis and managed to survive Fett's attacks with seismic charges. Tricking him into believing he had died, Kenobi managed to land on the planet, where he discovered a multitude of Trade Federation ships. Furthermore, he infiltrated and overheard Count Dooku addressing the Separatist Council and mentioning the attempts on Senator Amidala's life were at the request of Nute Gunray. Realizing the importance of his discoveries, Kenobi sent a message to Skywalker in Tatooine as his signal could not reach Coruscant on its own. Before he could end his message, however, Kenobi was captured by the Separatists and imprisoned. There, Dooku visited him; he revealed that the Republic was under the influence of a Sith Lord named Darth Sidious, and tried to convince Kenobi into join him to destroy the Sith together, but Kenobi refused.[11]

The Clone WarsEdit
First Battle of GeonosisEdit
"Attack those federation starships, quickly."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, during the battle[src]
Sentenced to execution in the Petranaki arena, Kenobi was joined in the arena by Skywalker and Amidala who, in their attempt to rescue him, were also captured. Although they managed to mostly control the three creatures deployed to kill them—a Reek, an Acklay, and a Nexu—, they were saved by the arrival of a Jedi task force led by Windu to rescue the prisoners. The Jedi fought back against the overwhelming droid armies, but soon only a few survivors were left in the center of the arena, surrounded by droids. Just as they were about to be executed, the clone army arrived, led by Master Yoda. The clones fought back against the droids and rescued the Jedi and Amidala. Kenobi, then, boarded the same Republic LAAT/i transport as Skywalker and Amidala.

Sai
Kenobi fighting Dooku on Geonosis.
Soon enough, they caught sight of Dooku, who was fleeing on his speeder. Despite Amidala's fall from the vehicle, Kenobi and Skywalker caught up with Dooku and dueled him, until they were both taken out of commission—Dooku wounded Kenobi and severed Skywalker's right arm at the elbow. Even though Yoda arrived to fight Dooku, the Count used the Force to cause the ceiling to cave in on Kenobi and Skywalker, forcing the Grand Master to focus on protecting them from the collapsing ceiling instead of stopping his old apprentice.[11]

After the Jedi returned to Coruscant, Kenobi met with Mace Windu and Yoda in the Jedi Council room to discuss the confrontation that had just taken place. Although Kenobi noted that it would not have been a victory without the clones, Yoda did not think of it as victory, as it meant the beginning of the Clone Wars.[11]
Further progress before ChristophsisEdit
Kenobi became a General in the Grand Army of the Republic during the Clone Wars as he led the Republic to many famed victories, and came to be known as "The Negotiator"[13]. During the war, his apprentice, Skywalker, ascended to the rank of Jedi Knight. The 212th Attack Battalion was under his command during much of the war effort.[24][25][26][27][8]

He also built a new lightsaber -- one that he would use throughout the remainder of his life.[8][4]
At some point, Kenobi gave a lecture in the Jedi Temple central security station for younglings to learn about the Jedi recall signal, when Caleb Dume inadvertently gave him the idea to use the warning beacon to warn Jedi away from the temple instead of calling them back,[28] an idea that would prove essential when Kenobi used it during the fall of the Republic.[8]
Christophsis and TethEdit
"Just teach her everything I taught you and she'll turn out fine."
"You know, something makes me think this was your idea from the start."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker, on Ahsoka Tano[src]
Kenobi and Skywalker were sent on a mission to bring relief supplies to Senator Bail Organa and the Republic forces that were trapped on Christophsis because of a Separatist blockade. Kenobi, who arrived later than his former apprentice, brought with him a stealth ship provided by the Republic, and gave orders to Skywalker to sneak past the blockade and deliver the supplies in secret, particularly so after Organa's command center was bombarded. However, Skywalker used the ship to attack the flagship of Admiral Trench, and broke the blockade with his successful attack, prompting Kenobi to issue Skywalker his congratulations.[29]

SlickApprehended
Kenobi and Skywalker tending to the traitorous clone.
Following the skirmish in space, the two Jedi Generals and their clone troopers were sent to the planet's surface to fight off the droid army taking control of the planet. When Kenobi's position was compromised and his forces ambushed, he and Skywalker were forced to abort their mission and retreat, but not before Captain Rex took the severed head of a T-series tactical droid with them. Upon surmising of a security breach, the Jedi Generals went behind enemy lines to investigate while Rex and Commander Cody investigated their spy's identity. Upon arriving on the Separatist headquarters, Kenobi and Skywalker dueled Asajj Ventress and pursued her only to discover an enormous Separatist army ready to take over Christophsis. When the two Jedi returned to the command center, they found the traitor clone Slick apprehended by Rex and Cody, and the weapons depot, and many of the gunships and AT-TEs destroyed.[30]

Some time afterwards, Kenobi sent a ship for supplies, but regretted his decision when a second wave of Separatist forces attacked them. During the fierce battle that ensued, the Republic forces managed to force the Separatist on a temporary retreat, but the need for reinforcements was evident. It was then that Kenobi met Ahsoka Tano, who relayed Master Yoda's message to return to Coruscant for a new mission, but the impending Separatist threat made it impossible for them to leave their post. Awaiting reinforcements and under attack, Kenobi allowed Skywalker and Tano to go behind enemy lines to destroy their enemy's deflector shield generator with him stalling for time by holding a fake surrender negotiation with General Loathsom.[31]
Obi-Wan Jabba negotiations
Kenobi negotiating with Jabba the Hutt.
With Skywalker and Tano's timely destruction of the generator, Kenobi captured Loathsom and met up with Yoda, who arrived with reinforcements. The small General then assigned Kenobi to negotiate with Jabba the use of their trading routes for safe passage within the Outer Rim. Kenobi, then flew to Tatooine and assured the Hutt that Rotta would be returned safely and to secure a promise from the crime lord. Afterwards, he went to Teth to support Skywalker and participate in the Battle of Teth, only to duel Ventress once again on his own before her escape. Along with Yoda, Kenobi later reunited with his former apprentice and Tano after they successfully returned Rotta to his father.[31]

The MalevolenceEdit
"That's your plan? Just fly there, land, hope they don't spot us, and walk in the door?"
"Basically."
"Oh. Brilliant. Let's get going."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker[src]
When Master Plo Koon's fleet was destroyed by the secret Separatist superweapon, the Malevolence during the Battle of Abregado, and Skywalker reported Plo Koon's interrupted message, Kenobi took part―along with Chancellor Palapatine, Windu and Yoda―in the meeting that decided Skywalker was to reinforce Kenobi's fleet to mount a taskforce and not send a rescue for the attack's possible survivors from the Abregado system. Waiting for Skywalker to join him with his fleet, he prompted the wayward Jedi to meet them as fast as he could. Though his fleet did join him, however, its General did not, as Skywalker and Tano were rescuing Plo Koon and some of his men. Kenobi, then, told the Council of his disobedience but also reported that Skywalker's fleet had reunited with his own. Fortunately, they managed to retrieve important information about the Malevolence.[32]

Obi-Wan reports to Nala Se
Kenobi and Yularen reporting to Nala Se.
Upon learning of the Malevolences’s next target―a clone medical station in the Outer Rim―, Kenobi and Skywalker formulated a daring plan to engage and destroy the Malevolence’s ion cannons with the Shadow Squadron, only for Kenobi to enter the system and destroy the massive warship using the combined fire power of his fleet. Along with Wullf Yularen, Kenobi helped organize the evacuation of the medical center, dispatching medical frigates. While Skywalker's task force proved successful in destroying its cannons, the Malevolence was so large that it could withstand the fire of Kenobi's fleet.[33]

Kenobi vs Grievous Malevolence
Kenobi clashing with Grievous onboard the Malevolence.
However, when Senator Amidala appeared during the battle due to false information regarding a diplomatic mission to the system and her ship was pulled aboard the Malevolence by a tractor beam, the pair quickly mounted a mission to rescue her. It ultimately proved successful, even though Kenobi was forced to engage in a brief duel with General Grievous while attempting to sabotage the warship's hyperdrive. Combined with Skywalker and Amidala's rigging of the navcomputer to pilot it into a nearby moon, they escaped and destroyed the Malevolence.[34]

The Rishi MoonEdit
Some weeks later, while searching for General Grievous and his fleet, Kenobi and Skywalker came to the aid of Commander Cody and Captain Rex, after the pair of clones engaged Separatist forces on the Rishi moon. The Jedi's fleet arrived just in time to force Grievous' ships out of the system, foiling the cyborg's plot to launch a surprise attack on Kamino.[35]

Grievous's attacksEdit
Tano: "Suicide is not the Jedi way, Master."
Kenobi: "You should listen to your Padawan."
Skywalker: "As you listened to yours, my old master? No, we're going to stay and fight."
―Ahsoka Tano, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker Listen (help·info)[src]
When he heard of Grievous's ambushing Republic fleets following the Republic's defeat at Falleen, Kenobi advised Skywalker to retreat, but Skywalker managed to destroy the cyborg's flotilla at the cost of losing R2-D2 at Bothawui.[36] Exasperated, Kenobi grudgingly accepted Skywalker's mission to retrieve the droid without severely rebuking him despite his reckless behavior.[37]

Dooku capturedEdit
"They are devious and deceitful and, most importantly, stupid."
"It's a wonder you don't get along with them, Dooku. You have so much in common."
―Dooku and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Kenobi and Skywalker later spearheaded an attempt to capture the head of the Confederacy, Count Dooku himself. While the Jedi's attempts to capture the Count aboard his flagship proved unsuccessful, Tano's forces successfully made Dooku crash land on Vanqor during his escape from the doomed vessel. While Kenobi and Skywalker searched for the Count in a cave nearby to the wreckage of his personal craft, Dooku used the Force to cause a roof collapse, trapping the Jedi and securing his escape.[38]

Epguide11
Dooku's incarceration confirmed by Kenobi and Skywalker.
After Dooku was captured by the pirates who hoped to trade him for a hefty ransom from the Republic, Kenobi and Skywalker were sent to the pirates' stronghold to ensure they had indeed captured Dooku. When the two Jedi confirmed so, Chancellor Palpatine had Representative Binks and Senator Kharrus lead a diplomatic mission to trade a ransom for the Count.[38] Captain Hondo Ohnaka, the leader of the pirates, however, proved treacherous and captured Skywalker and Kenobi, hoping to gain an additional ransom for them. Fortunately, Representative Binks was able to rescue them, though the mission did come at the cost of Senator Kharrus' life and Dooku's escape.[39]

Orto PlutoniaEdit
"Now that you have created peace between your people and the Talz, remember one crucial thing..."
"Yes, Master Kenobi?"
"Make it last, senator. Make it last."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Riyo Chuchi[src]
ObiWanHugged-Trespass
Kenobi surprised by a hug given by Thi-Sen in lieu of a handshake.
Called to Orto Plutonia to ascertain why the Republic had lost contact with a clone outpost, Kenobi and Skywalker, along with Chairman Chi Cho and Senator Riyo Chuchi, found the Republic base to be devoid of life, all clones stationed there having been killed, much like a nearby Separatist base. Following clues to a canyon, Skywalker and Kenobi met the Talz and arranged a diplomatic meeting between the Pantorans and the Talz.[40]

However, Chi Cho's arrogance would provoke a war between him and Thi-Sen's people, with him proclaiming it was an internal affair of Pantora so as to remove the Jedi from the equation. Skywalker and Kenobi appealed to Chuchi to find a way to resolve the political matter diplomatically, and she contacted the Speaker of the Pantoran Assembly near Glid Station, who granted her the authority to negotiate peace and declared the Chairman out of order. However, the solution came too late as Chi Cho was attacked before Kenobi, Skywalker, and Chuchi landed halted the Talz's attack. To settle the conflict between the Pantorans and the Talz, Chuchi met with Thi-Sen, establishing an agreement that allowed the Talz to live in peace on the planet. As the Senator and the Jedi boarded a gunship offworld, Kenobi congratulated the Senator in creating peace and urged her to make it last and act as an example to others.[40]
Blue Shadow VirusEdit
"A great leap forward often requires taking two steps back."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
The Jedi Council later sent Kenobi, Skywalker and Tano, to Naboo in response to intel that suggested that a Separatist bio-lab had been set up on the planet. Senator Amidala and Representative Binks set off to search for the lab, but contact was lost, and Skywalker sent Tano along with the Gungan native Peppi Bow to locate them. Meanwhile, Skywalker and Kenobi learned from new information discovered by Captain Gregar Typho that Separatist scientist Nuvo Vindi was using the lab to perfect the deadly Blue Shadow Virus so as to release it into key Republic star systems. After being contacted by Tano, Kenobi and Skywalker entered and aided Tano, before beginning a search for Vindi's viral bombs. Though Vindi attempted to release the virus, the Jedi were able to apprehend him and rescue Amidala and Binks.[41]

Angel2
Kenobi talking to an Angel.
As Kenobi and Skywalker prepared to transfer Vindi for trial, Tano, Amidala and several clones discovered that a vial of the virus was missing. Though they were able to sound the alarm, it was not in time, and Vindi's servant droid was able to detonate a bomb, releasing the virus throughout the lab. The Jedi were then forced to make their way to the planet of Iego to search for the antidote to the virus, so as to save Amidala and Tano. While on Iego, the Jedi were able to free the people there from an insidious Separatist security system designed to prevent the inhabitants from leaving the planet, with the help of young Jaybo Hood. They were also able to locate the antidote and returned in time to save Tano, Amidala and most of the clones.[42]

RylothEdit
"We need to remember why we're here. We came to aid the Twi'leks, not destroy their home."
―Kenobi to Ghost Company aboard the Crumb Bomber — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
After Techno Union leader Wat Tambor seized control of Ryloth and its inhabitants, the Jedi Council devised a plan for Kenobi and Mace Windu to lead a ground assault to invade and liberate the planet, while Skywalker and Tano were dispatched to destroy the Separatist blockade surrounding the planet. Once Skywalker and Tano's forces were successful, Kenobi arrived with the rest of the invasion forces.[43]

Obi-Wan distracts gutkurrs
Kenobi distracting gutkurrs.
Unable to use Acclamator-class transgalactic military assault ships and other gunships from Crumb Bomber, Kenobi and Ghost Company landed on Ryloth, and Windu tasked the Jedi General with destroying the Separatist cannons to allow the transports to land. After taking out droids in a bunker on the outskirts of the village, Kenobi and the clones entered the city and set up a temporary camp. Then, Kenobi sent Cody, Wooley, Waxer and Boil to scout ahead. Cody and Wooley came back and reported that the droids had taken the Twi'leks as hostages. Following a conference with Windu, Kenobi and his troops entered the village where they encountered starved gutkurrs that began to attack them. The Jedi lured the creatures into an alley so that the clones could trap them by collapsing a bridge between them.[24]

When Waxer and Boil then emerged out of an underground tunnel with the young Numa, Kenobi talked to the girl in Twi'leki and learned that she could lead them to the prisoners. Tasking Cody with creating a diversion for the droids, Kenobi went with Waxer, Boil and Numa to the underground passages and freed the Twi'lek hostages, who fled into the tunnels. Then, Kenobi took control of a proton cannon, and with the help of Waxer and Boil, he managed to take out other cannons until a TX-20 blasted the three aside.[24]
TX-20 targets Obi-Wan and Numa
TX-20's tank targets Kenobi and Numa.
Fortunately, the Twi'leks protected them, with Kenobi attempting to shield Numa's eyes from the violence. As the Acclamator transports landed, Windu commended Kenobi on his victory, but they continued with their next mission. As the Republic forces departed for Lessu, Waxer and Boil inquired Kenobi about the meaning of "Nerra", which the Jedi General translated as "brother."[24] After Windu and and his forces reached Lessu, Kenobi led his contingent to capture the southern hemisphere of Ryloth and was able to successfully take the Jixuan desert. With Windu taking Lessu and capturing Wat Tambor, the two Jedi Generals freed the planet from Separatist rule.[44]

The stolen holocronEdit
"There are thousands of children on that list. Which will he go after first?"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
BattleOfFelucia-HH
Kenobi and Skywalker during the first battle of Felucia.
During the Battle of Felucia, Master Kenobi was sent along with Skywalker and Tano to Felucia which had been invaded by the Separatists. While Obi-Wan, Skywalker, Commander Cody and Captain Rex stayed with the main body of troops to defend their clearing-based emplacement of AT-TE walkers, Tano led two AT-TE walkers and a Juggernaut tank on a patrol of the dense jungle. Kenobi realized that they were losing and ordered the retreat as soon as Master Plo Koon arrived to help them. Kenobi contacted Tano who refused to retreat. Even though Skywalker and Kenobi arrived to pick her up, she refused to pull back until Skywalker convinced her that the battle was lost. Kenobi later reported to the rest of the Jedi Council about Tano's actions during the battle back at the Jedi Temple.[45]

KenobiBlackStallStation-CotF
Kenobi defending against Bane's automated laser defense system on Black Stall Station.
On Yoda's warning of an intrusion in the Temple, Kenobi and Skywalker surmised that the intruders might want to take hold of Jedi transmitter codes from their communications tower center, but Cad Bane managed to trick them and steal a holocron from the vault.[45] Once the Jedi was warned of the objective, Force-sensitive children, Kenobi was sent to Rodia in hopes of finding Wee Dunn only for Bane to take the infant before Kenobi could capture him.[46]

After Bane was captured by Skywalker and Tano on Naboo, Kenobi, Windu and Skywalker all used a mind trick on him at the same time to make him talk. Bane resisted but the Jedi's combined efforts forced him to agree to take them to the children and the holocron. Later, Kenobi and Windu went on a mission with the bounty hunter to his hideout. Bane took them to the holocron but then Windu accidentally triggered the intruder-alert system, causing lasers to fire on the two Jedi Masters. While Kenobi and Windu were occupied, Bane fled. However Kenobi and Windu still managed to retrieve the holocron and escape the base just before it was destroyed while Skywalker and Tano rescued the kidnapped children from Mustafar.[46]
FeluciaEdit
Embo hurt
Sugi, Kenobi and others coming to the aid of Embo.
Afterwards, the disappearance of a medical station orbiting over Felucia prompted the Jedi Council to send Kenobi, Skywalker and Tano to investigate the issue. Once on the system, they were by Separatist vulture droids and forced to do a crash landing on Felucia, where they came across a nysillin farm village raided by Hondo Ohnaka and his gang, whom they had met on Florrum[39]. Despite Kenobi's reluctance to help them in case they attracted Grievous' attention, the three Jedi took part of a skirmish between the village and pirates, and assisted the bounty hunters hired by the farmers to protect them—Sugi, Embo, Rumi Paramita and Seripas. Following their victory and the gang's retreat, with Ohnaka claiming the land was no longer profitable, Sugi offered them a ride to a Republic outpost.[47]

The Zillo BeastEdit
"Why would the Chancellor want to bring the beast here? He thinks that by studying it, the knowledge could prove beneficial, but from what you reported, it hardly seems worth the effort."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Following the discovery of the Zillo Beast during the Battle of Malastare[48] and its transference to Coruscant, Windu shared his concerns with Kenobi, who agreed with him and suggested to let Skywalker convince the Chancellor of sending back the beast. Kenobi, then, approached Senator Amidala to help him—who, in turn, helped him convince Skywalker—to reason with Palpatine. However, Palpatine had already ordered Doctor Sionver Boll to kill the beast to extract its scales, and the poison intended to kill it only caused the creature to become agitated and aggressive. Once it managed to break free of its bonds, smashed its way out of the laboratory and started rampaging across Coruscant to reach the Senate building and Palpatine in it.[49]

Deployed to contain the beast, Kenobi and Windu managed to save the Chancellor using the Force and, later, commanded gunships to distract the beast together with Yoda and Aayla Secura while the Chancellor escaped with Skywalker, Amidala, R2-D2 and C-3PO. As the gunships arrived and killed the creature by firing poison gas bombs into into its mouth, Kenobi and the others looked on in regret, as the Zillo Beast finally succumbed to the poison and fell from the roof of the Senate to its death below.[48]
Second Battle of GeonosisEdit
"I cannot believe we're back here again."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
GeonosisPlanning
Kenobi, other Jedi and the Chancellor plan their invasion of Geonosis.
Assigned to capture Geonosis, alongside Ki-Adi-Mundi, Luminara Unduli, Skywalker and Tano, Kenobi participated in a conference to delineate the invasion plans to destroy Poggle the Lesser's primary droid factory, which was being protected by a massive ray shield. With their primary target being the shield generator at the Ray Shield Fortress, the Jedi mounted a three-pronged attack on the Geonosian defenses. Kenobi and Cody commenced the central push while Mundi and Skywalker lead the northern and southern assaults, respectively. Though Kenobi's able to reach the landing, the Jedi General was injured and forced to await for Skywalker and Mundi's arrival who, despite their obstacles, managed to join Kenobi. In a combined effort, they managed to destroy the shield generator, and Kenobi and Mundi returned to the fleet with the rest of the wounded for treatment.[27]

Following the factory's destruction by Skywalker, Tano, Unduli and Barriss Offee[50] and the Republic's hard-won victory, Kenobi returned to the planet and mounted an intense campaign to find Poggle, with Unduli spearheading the search only to follow Poggle to the Progate Temple, where she was captured by the Archduke and taken to the lair of Geonosian Queen Karina the Great in the catacombs below. Tracking Unduli's last known location, Kenobi and Skywalker set out with a clone platoon to rescue her, and entered the catacombs only to find themselves before the Queen and her "undead" servants. Soon enough, and thanks to Kenobi's plans, they freed Luminara, captured Poggle and escaped the temple, while destroying much of the Queen's lair during their escape, burying Karina the Great and her warriors beneath.[25] Kenobi, Mundi, Unduli and Skywalker, then, took Poggle to Coruscant for interrogation, while Offee and Tano brought to supplies to Windu and Kit Fisto on Dantooine.[51]
SaleucamiEdit
"The story of Obi-Wan Kenobi ends here."
―General Grievous, about to finish Kenobi[src]
Soon after Jedi Master and Council member Eeth Koth was captured by Grievous, Kenobi, Skywalker and Adi Gallia volunteered to engage the Confederacy at Saleucami, rescue Koth, and capture General Grievous.[52]

Grievous vs. Kenobi Saleucami
Kenobi engages Grievous in the docking tube.
Kenobi was the first of the Jedi to arrive at Saleucami and engaged Grievous's forces with a fleet under the command of Admiral Yularen. Early in the battle, Kenobi's light cruiser was caught in a tractor beam from Grievous's ship and boarded by the cyborg General himself. Once Skywalker and Gallia rescued Eeth Koth, Grievous dueled Kenobi until understanding that the Jedi Master had the upper hand. As the cyborg retreated to his destroyer, he ordered his ship to destroy Kenobi's—who managed to board Grievous' ship with Cody and two other clones before it was too late thanks to Gallia's help. Afterwards, they reunited with Skywalker on the hangar so that they could escape from Grievous' ship, whose General was forced to flee in an escape pod to land on the planet.[52]

While his fellow Jedi generals continued the battle in orbit, Kenobi led a force of clone troopers to the planet's surface to hunt down Grievous. The cyborg General evaded and fled from the Republic forces, hoping to reach an escape pod with a functioning transmitter in order to call for an evacuation transport. When Kenobi caught up with and engaged Grievous, the cyborg fled the battle once a shuttle arrived to ferry him away. Seeing as the mission had failed, Kenobi contacted Rex and told him to meet them to leave the planet.[53]
Mandalore's Death WatchEdit
"We'll have to stand and fight. Or in your case, just stand."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Satine Kryze — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Memorial Shrine bombing
The memorial shrine being bombed as Kenobi and Duchess Satine Kryze looked on.
When rumors spread that the new leader of the Council of Neutral Systems, Duchess Satine Kryze, was secretly building her own army to fight for the Separatist cause, Kenobi was sent to Sundari by the Jedi Council to investigate the matter. There, he met Prime Minister Almec and re-encountered his old friend, Kryze, who assured him that she was not behind an attack to a Republic cruiser. Angered at the accusations, she claimed the Senate was eager to intervene in the planet's affairs before being corrected by Kenobi, who claimed to be there on the Jedi Order's interest. Assuaged, the Duchess then took Kenobi for a walk on Peace Park and informed him of a renegade group of warriors known as Death Watch when a terrorist blew up the memorial shrine where Kryze and Kenobi were walking. When Kenobi had the guards round up everyone at the scene, a man fled with Kenobi after him and committed suicide instead of being captured. As the Duchess spoke to the dying man, she realized he came from Concordia and helped Kenobi reach the moon, where the Jedi Master met its Governor, Pre Viszla.[54]

Kenobi vs Vizsla
Kenobi engaging Pre Vizsla in a duel.
Kenobi went out to investigate the mines and discovered that the Death Watch was using one of the facilities as a base. Taken hostage by the Death Watch, he contacted Kryze, who freed him, and together, they tried to escape when they were attacked and the Commander of the Death Watch arrived. Revealing himself to be Viszla, he returned Kenobi's lightsaber and dueled him with the Darksaber, until he ordered his warrior to kill him with missiles. Kenobi and Kryze managed to escape, barely surviving, and returned to Mandalore. The next day, Kenobi told the Duchess that he believed the Separatists were involved, which only angered her; the Jedi Master, then, was joined by Skywalker so as to bodyguard her during her and other senators' trip to Coruscant onboard the Coronet.[54]

On their way to the Republic's capital, Kenobi took part of a heated debate with the Duchess over what the best course of action was to deal with the conflict, until they took a little abreak. Then, Skywalker asked him Kenobi of their past, which Kenobi explained he and his master, Jinn, had been protecting her during a year-long, dangerous mission during a civil war on Mandalore. It was then that assassin droids were activated, prompting Kenobi to defend Kryze. When the droids were stopped, Skywalker reported to Kenobi that one of the senators was a traitor, and Kenobi then devised a plan to uncover the traitor's identity by using the last active droid.[15]
Obi-Wan Satine VoT
Kryze safely arriving on Coruscant thanks to Kenobi's help.
It turned out to be Tal Merrik, who took Kryze as a hostage and made his way to the cockpit to jump out of hyperspace, so that droid reinforcements could enter the ship. While Skywalker engaged the droids, Kenobi found and followed Merrik, who would blow up the ship, as he got near the escape pods, unable to make a move on the senator. Afraid she might not see Kenobi again, Kryze confessed her feelings for him, to which Kenobi replied he would have left the Order if she had told him earlier. Then, Kryze took the opportunity to escape a disgusted Merrik and take his blaster. However, neither Kenobi nor Kryze made a move to stop him, leaving Skywalker to sneak up from behind and stab him in the back, branding himself as a "cold-blooded killer." After arriving on Coruscant, Kenobi and Kryze reflected upon the situation, and the Duchess flirted with him, saying his beard hid too much of his "handsome face."[15]

When Kryze's pleas to the Senate to not interfere with Mandalore's internal affairs went unheard, Kenobi reunited with the Duchess, advising her not to be rash, angering her. Soon enough, she was victim to another terrorist attack and barely survived, prompting the Senate to accelerate the vote—with the Republic deciding to occupate Mandalore. Despite Kenobi's plea to help her, Kryze took matters in her own hands, only to framed with murder by the Death Watch.[55]
SKASOWKPAPMA-DoM
Chancellor Palpatine apologizing to Duchess Satine Kryze.
Asking for his help, Kenobi met her and accepted to give Senator Amidala the disc she had obtained from his contact. Despite an attack by a Death Watch assassin and Kryze turning herself in, Kenobi got the disc through to Amidala, who then played the complete recording from Deputy Prime Minister Jerec in front of the Senate—prompting the Senate to vote against Mandalore's occupation. When the Duchess received the apologies and thanks from the Chancellor and Mas Amedda, Kenobi received her thanks, though the two reflected about not knowing who tried to drag Mandalore into war and have the Duchess framed for murder.[55]

Kamino under attackEdit
"All too easy."
"Define 'easy,' General."
―Grievous and Kenobi[src]
After the destruction of the Rishi moon tracking station, Kenobi and Skywalker intercepted a coded message between Ventress and Grievous. Generals Kenobi and Skywalker, Commander Cody, Captain Rex and troopers of the 501st went to Kamino to aid in its defense. As Skywalker fought in the space above Kamino, Kenobi took a submarine and discovered Ventress's forces readying their assault crafts under water. Aqua droids attacked his submarine, but he escaped thanks to a passing aiwha. The Jedi General managed to get back and recalled Skywalker to the city as the Separatists commanders Grievous and Ventress attacked; while Kenobi faced off against Grievous, Skywalker engaged Ventress in combat. The two generals dueled until an assault craft destroyed the platform they were dueling on. Grievous thought he had defeated Kenobi, but an aiwha saved the Jedi again. Unfortunately, Grievous and Ventress were able to escape once again.[56]

Ziro huntedEdit
"I never did enjoy hanging out with you."
―Kenobi to Quinlan Vos, hanging off the side of a cliff[src]
BaneKenobi-Showdown
Kenobi dueling Bane on Teth.
Later during the war, after the Senate hostage crisis, Kenobi was assigned to track down Ziro the Hutt and Cad Bane with his old friend, Jedi Master Quinlan Vos. The two of them headed to Nal Hutta, where they informed Gardulla the Hutt and the rest of the Hutt council of Ziro's escape and of Bane's help in this act. Though the Hutt Council denied involvement in this, Vos was able to psychometrically scan a cup, telling him and Kenobi that Ziro had been there. When they got to the prison level, however, Ziro had already escaped due to help from his lover, Sy Snootles. Kenobi and Vos then tracked Ziro down in the swamp, where they saw Bane following Ziro as well, and found Ziro's mother who told them that his son had gone to Teth, where he would secretly recover the Hutt Council records.[57]

Kenobi and Vos then proceeded to Teth, where they found Ziro shot and dead at his Father's grave, and were then confronted by Bane. Though Bane tried to leave, Kenobi attempted to arrest Bane for taking the Senate hostage and engaged in a duel with the bounty hunter. Despite the Jedi's best efforts, Bane used his flamethrowers to throw them off the cliff, leaving the two to hang on a cliff, and escaped.[57]
Dathomirian threatEdit
"Warrior-like men, witches—this place has all kinds of fun."
―Anakin Skywalker to Kenobi, on Dathomir[src]
During the Battle of Sullust, Kenobi was chased by Asajj Ventress in her Ginivex-class fanblade starfighter. Skywalker managed to dispatch the tri-fighter that the assassin had sent for him and came to the aid of his former master. He then crippled Ventress's vessel, but not before she managed to shoot down the Jedi Master. The two opposing commanders crash-landed in the hangar of the Separatist command ship, Kenobi and Skywalker quickly engaged Ventress in lightsaber combat. Count Dooku, upon orders from his own master, interrupted the duel by ordering the destruction of the Separatist command ship to ensure Ventress's death. The two Jedi fled in their interceptors, presuming Ventress to be doomed but she escaped and Dooku retreated, thinking she was dead.[58]

ShowdownOnToydaria-WOTM
Kenobi facing Savage Opress on Toydaria
After the massacre on Devaron,[59] Kenobi and Skywalker were sent to Dathomir, as footage had shown the Council of a Dathomirian's role during the attack on Devaron. Once on Dathomir, they made their way to a village, where they were ambushed by the Nightbrothers until Skywalker took their leader hostage; the Zabrak then told the Jedi that a Nightsister had taken one of their fortress, prompting the Jedi to go there. Kenobi and Skywalker questioned Mother Talzin who told them his name—Savage Opress—and whereabouts. The two Jedi then headed to Toydaria where they confronted Opress, but failed to stop him from killing King Katuunko. Using the king's ship as their was destroyed, Kenobi and Skywalker caught up with their target on Dooku's Separatist flagship; however, Opress managed to overpower them, forcing the two to retreat and leave the ship.[60]

MortisEdit
"Obi-Wan, have you done as I asked? Have you trained the boy?"
―Qui-Gon Jinn to Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
ObiWanQuiGon-Overlords
Kenobi converses with the Force ghost of his master, Jinn.
When the Jedi Council received a 2,000 year old Jedi distress code, Kenobi along with Skywalker and Tano were sent to the Chrelythium system, where they were supposed to meet up with Captain Rex and an armed cruiser. Though they both made to the rendezvous point, neither Rex's nor the Jedi's ship could see each other. In fact, the Jedi's ship was guided to a mysterious planet, where they were met by a mysterious figure called the Daughter who wanted to lead them to The Father. Shortly after, Skywalker and the Daughter were separated from Kenobi and Tano.[61]

Trying to return to the ship, Kenobi and Tano met the Son, who suggested them to take shelter from the oncoming storm. In a cave, when Tano was asleep, his late master, Qui-Gon Jinn, appeared before him, explaining the purpose of the planet they were on and that the three figures they encountered, like Jinn, believed Skywalker was the Chosen One. As Jinn disappeared, Kenobi woke Tano up and they resolved to find Skywalker together, only for the Daughter and the Son to capture them for Skywalker's test. In danger of being killed by the Daughter, Kenobi was saved when Skywalker subdued their captors, proving himself to be the Chosen One, and the three Jedi tried to leave the planet.[61]
KenobiMortisDagger-AOM
Kenobi trying to hand Skywalker the Dagger.
However, Tano was abducted by the Son, which prompted Kenobi and Skywalker to go their separate ways. While Kenobi went to ask the Father - whom he thought would know what to do - for help, Skywalker went after the Son, fearing he would kill Tano. When he reached the monastery, he witnessed as the Son mortally wounded his Father, and asked the Daughter for help. She then showed him the Altar, where he obtained a dagger that would allow them to kill the Son, and together they faced the Son on his cathedral, only for the darksider to tell him of Skywalker and corrupted Tano's duel. Kenobi then helped Skywalker subdue Tano, until the Father's appearance interrupted them.[62]

As the Son was about to kill the Father, Kenobi tried to hand Skywalker the dagger, but Tano grabbed it and gave it to the Son, who killed her as her usefulness came to an end. The darksider then killed his sister as she stepped in to save her Father. Then, Kenobi witnessed as the Daughter used Skywalker as a conduit to channel the last of her life force into Tano, resurrecting her. The Father then commanded Kenobi, Skywalker, and Tano to leave the planet before the Son used their ship to do so;[62] however, their ship's repairs forced them to stay a bit longer, so Kenobi let Skywalker go to the Father for guidance.[63]
ObiWanWell-GOM
Kenobi trying to climb himself out of the Well of the Dark Side.
The Father then, appeared before Kenobi and told him Skywalker had gone to the Well of the Dark Side to confront the Son, only to be shown his future and be corrupted by the dark side of the Force. Kenobi, who had gone to the well, was left stranded in there by Skywalker. Concerned, Kenobi contacted Tano and ordered her to disable the ship, fetch him on the well and meet with Skywalker—whose memories had been erased—and the Father on his Monastery. There, they confronted a newly arrived Son with the Dagger, but only the Father's sacrifice could stop the Son, with Skywalker finally killing the depowered darksider. As Mortis' conflict came to an end, Kenobi, Tano and Skywalker woke up in the ship, as if nothing had happened, and reunited with Captain Rex at the rendezvous point.[63]

The CitadelEdit
"Obi-Wan, what took you guys so long?"
―Even Piell, on his rescue[src]
Following the capture of Jedi Master Even Piell and his imprisonment in the the Citadel, Kenobi, Skywalker, Commander Cody, Captain Rex, and other troopers from the 501st were sent to rescue the imprisoned Jedi. Joined by a rebellious Tano, Kenobi and the rest froze themselves in carbonite to prevent the prison's life scanners from detecting them, and infiltrated the prison. During their free climbing to the entry point, surrounded by electromines, Tano sneaked through a ventilation duct to disable their entrance's ray shield. However, one trooper fell, alerting the prison of their arrival. Even then, the team made their way to Piell and freed him.[26]

PiellRescued-TC
Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker after freeing Master Piell.
Piell, then, revealed when the ship crashed, he and one of his Captains, Wilhuff Tarkin, each memorized half of the intel on the Nexus Route so that, if one person broke, the information would be useless without the other half. Changing the plans, the team managed to rescue the other officers, where Piell presented Tarkin to Kenobi and Skywalker. Then, Kenobi suggested for them to split up—Tarkin accompanied Skywalker and Tano, while Kenobi and Piell would create a diversion to allow R2-D2 and his droids to take them off planet.[26] Kenobi and his team, however, were captured before making it to the rendezvous point and met the prison's commander, Osi Sobeck, until R2-D2 and his squad freed them, to meet with Skywalker's team back at the shuttle, which was destroyed during the battle that ensued, taking Echo's live with it. Forced to escaped, Kenobi and Skywalker contacted the Jedi Council to send a rescue force to pick them up, and continued their escape through tunnels surrounding the tower.[64]

After Piell contacted the Council to know the exact point of their pick-up and Sobeck sent anoobas to track them down, Kenobi, Skywalker and R2-D2 posed as bait so that the rest of the team could ambush them. Despite being successful, Piell died during the confrontation, after telling Tano the Intel. She, then, reunited with the rest of the team and they all took a moment to honor his death, as Kenobi and Skywalker lowered his body into a river of lava with the Force. Nevertheless, they managed to get to the extraction point on time, even with Sobeck's intervention, and flee on Plo Koon's rescue shuttle, with Saesee Tiin doing cover fire to allow their escape back to Coruscant.[65]
Mon CalamariEdit
Windu: "It will take us days to outfit another clone regiment for underwater combat."
Kenobi: "Days our friends do not have."
Yoda: "Perhaps we should look to armies other than clones to help our cause."
Windu: "What do you suggest?"
Yoda: "A suitable ally we must find to help with this mission."
Tiin: "Yes. An underwater race that has a standing army, and is close enough to send help quickly."
Kenobi: "Naboo."
Yoda: "Yes, to the Gungans we must look."
Windu: "We shall contact them immediately."
―Jedi Masters Mace Windu, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Yoda and Saesee Tiin[src]
When the Jedi Council were looking for a underwater race that close enough to reinforce the Republic's forces fighting on the planet of Mon Cala, Kenobi was the one who suggested that Naboo may be close enough to help.[66]

UmbaraEdit
"Congratulations on your capture of the Umbaran airbase, general."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Pong Krell[src]
CloneBriefing-Umbara
Kenobi during the briefing prior to the invasion of Umbara
Kenobi, along with fellow Jedi Tiin, Skywalker, and Pong Krell, was deployed to retake the Umbara. Kenobi's battalion's mission was to take the capital and met fierce resistance from the Umbaran militia.[67] Kenobi then contacted Krell and the 501st, to order them to secure a Umbaran airbase that was resupplying the capital.[68]

After his battalion had been pushed away from the capital due to the Umbaran's long-rage missiles, Kenobi congratulated on his success on taking the airbase and informed him that the capital still receiving supplies, this time from a enemy supply ship in the atmosphere. He also informed Krell of oncoming, but delayed reinforcements, only for the Besalisk to tell him he would take his battalion to the city regardless of the capital's defenses. Kenobi's transmission was then jammed by the Umbarans.[69] Despite Krell's efforts to sabotage the Republic effort by tricking the 501st and the 212th battalions into attacking each other, Kenobi was successful in taking the capital and routing the remaining Umbaran forces, securing all sectors of the planet for the Republic.[70]
ZygerriaEdit
"If such Jedi as Skywalker and Kenobi can fall, how many other will follow? Imagine an army of Jedi in your service."
―Miraj Scintel, to Count Dooku[src]
DNarPummelsKenobi-Kidnapped
Kenobi getting pummelled by Zygerrian commander Darts D'Nar
Ten rotations after Master Yoda's last contact with the Togruta colony of Kiros, Kenobi, Skywalker, Tano, Captain Rex, and Commander Cody landed on the colony, where they found no inhabitants and fought their way through droid contingents on BARC speeders to the governor's tower. Once they had the Separatist headquarters surrounded inside the governor's tower, Cody showed Kenobi a message from the Separatist commander, Darts D'Nar, asking him to come to the tower to negotiate terms of "surrender." When Skywalker became angry at recognizing D'Nar as a Zygerrian slaver, Kenobi told his old apprentice to look for the colonists while he negotiated with D'Nar and explained Skywalker's history with slavery to Tano, who assured Kenobi she would keep an eye on him.[71]

Kenobi then went into the tower and interrupted D'Nar's meeting with Dooku and Zygerrian Prime Minister Atai Molec to negotiate terms of surrender—the Republic's surrender. Kenobi then turned his comlink on so that Skywalker and Ahsoka could hear the fact that the Zygerrian had several bombs planted throughout the city. Kenobi then surrendered, but challenged D'Nar to a duel in the Zygerrian way (with no weapons) to distract him while Skywalker and Tano disarmed the bombs. Though he received a good beating from D'Nar, Kenobi successfully beguiled the Zygerrian, who set off his last bomb located on his tactical droid and escaped from the Jedi Master. Unable to pursue him, he told Skywalker and Tano of his departure. After Skywalker captured D'Nar and his ship, Kenobi, Skywalker and Ahsoka then contacted the Jedi Council, informing them of the Zygerrians' abduction of the colonists.[71]
BrezakEscape-SOTR
Kenobi, Rex and Governor Roshti trying to escape.
Using D'Nar's ship, Kenobi, along with Skywalker, Tano, Captain Rex and R2-D2, traveled to Zygerria. Upon arrival they formed two teams; Skywalker and Tano went to talk to Queen Miraj Scintel disguised as master and slave, respectively, while Kenobi and Rex, disguised as Zygerrian traders, tried to locate the kidnapped colonists from Kiros. The two proceeded to the Royal palace's slave pits where they found the Togrutan Governor of Kiros, Roshti, weak and broken from his ordeal. With Rex, Kenobi decided to take him to safety on a brezak, only for Kenobi to be shot in the shoulder and captured along with Roshti, with Rex safely escaping. Chained to a wall and tortured for information, Kenobi was recognized as a Jedi by Prime Minister Atai Molec, and prepared to sell him at that night's auction block.[72]

At the auction, Roshti and Kenobi were the first slaves to be put on offer, and Queen Scintel ordered Skywalker to torture Kenobi with a shock whip before the eyes of the assembled bidders. Once Skywalker entered the arena however, he signaled to R2-D2, who launched Kenobi's, Skywalker's, and Tano's lightsabers to their owners, while Rex aided them with a blaster. Despite their efforts, however, the whole team was soon captured and separated. While Skywalker and Tano were kept in Zygerria, Kenobi, Rex and Roshti were taken to Kadavo, where the rest of the Kiros colonist were kept. There, the Jedi General was forced into submission by the center’s warden, Agruss, who emphasized his point by dropping several Togrutan prisoners to their deaths and threatening to do worse to the others, should Obi-Wan ever think of rebellion.[72]
RexTogrutasKadavo
Kenobi and Rex during their enslavement on Kadavo.
On Kadavo, Kenobi and Rex was soon forced into working in the mines, where he had a hard time scrounging up any spark of hope for himself or the unfortunate prisoners, since every time he did so, one of the Togrutans was punished in his place in order to heighten his despair. Following the Queen's death at the hands of Dooku and her last words telling Skywalker where Kenobi was, Kenobi was part of a conference with Count Dooku in the facility control room. Despite Dooku's wish to execute Kenobi, Skywalker arrived to Kadavo with Jedi reinforcements. During the battle that ensued, Kenobi and Rex fought in the room, killed Agruss and escaped the facility, while Tano and troopers rescued the Togruta prisoners before the Republic forces destroyed the labor facility.[73]

Palpatine kidnappedEdit
"How do I look?"
"Like a criminal. Should buy you all the credibility you need in prison."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Mace Windu[src]
Following Moralo Eval's capture by the Republic and his imprisonment in the Republic Judiciary Central Detention Center, Kenobi became part of a plot with Yoda and Mace Windu to stop Eval's machinations to kidnap Chancellor Palpatine. To do so, he allowed himself to be shot by a sniper, Rako Hardeen, in front of Skywalker and Tano, who then believed him to be dead.[74]

TheGreatEscape-D
Kenobi, disguised as Rako Hardeen, escaping with Moralo Eval and Cad Bane.
Following his funeral, Kenobi assumed the identity of his apparent killer and had his physical appearance altered. In addition, once Kenobi and Windu recorded a sample of Hardeen's voice in Trueping's, Kenobi swallowed a vocal emulator to perfectly disguise his voice as Hardeen's. Kenobi was then sent to the detention center, where he formed a partnership with Eval, who trusted Kenobi and thought he could be useful, and Cad Bane, who did not. When a prison riot started, the trio was able to break out and leave Coruscant for Nal Hutta.[74]

When they arrived at Nal Hutta, Kenobi crashed their ship in order to cover their trail. The trio then proceeded to try to find supplies and a new ship in Bilbousa, and Bane grew even more distrustful of Kenobi after Kenobi's kind treatment of Pablo, the owner of the pawnshop that the trio went to. Kenobi, suspecting betrayal, planted a tracking device on the new ship he bought, so that when Bane left Kenobi to be arrested by the local authorities, the Jedi turned the frequency of the tracking device over to his captors, who shot Bane and Eval's ship down. Kenobi, meanwhile, escaped from captivity and purchased another ship, and when Bane and Eval found him smugly waiting for them, they agreed to make him a partner in their scheme. When the trio reached Orondia, Skywalker and Tano caught up with them. During a small confrontation, Kenobi wrestled with Skywalker, whispering "Anakin, don't follow me." just before knocking him unconscious and escaping with Bane and Eval.[75]
Task4Sharpshooting-TB
Kenobi demonstrates his shooting skills in the fourth task.
Eval, Bane, and Kenobi then traveled to Serenno to meet with Count Dooku, and Bane and Kenobi accepted an invitation to participate along with eleven other notorious bounty hunters in a test of skill designed by Eval called the Box. "Hardeen" surpassed Eval's tests, the Phindian grew angrier with him for his continued success. In the fourth and final test, their shooting skills would be tested, with the bounty hunters's target being a moving spot on the wall. If they missed, they would fall into a floor of flame emitters. After Sixtat failed, Kenobi stepped in to shoot the target. However, Eval had laid a trap for Kenobi, as his rifle ran out of shots before he could he could hit the last moving spot. However, when the platform dropped beneath him, Bane, disliking Eval's unfair tactics, shot Kenobi a rope and pulled him up. Dooku decided that Eval should not be exempted from the contest and dropped him to the now extinguished floor to fight with Kenobi. Though the Count wanted him to kill Eval, Kenobi refrained, disappointing the Sith lord, who then chose to put Bane in charge of the operation to kidnap the Chancellor.[76]

Dooku and his team of BHs
"Hardeen" as part of Dooku's team of bounty hunters.
Planning to abduct Palpatine during the Festival of Light on Naboo, the team commandeered a warehouse in Theed and each member of the team was assigned a role, with Kenobi being given the job of the sniper who would fire stun blasts at the Chancellor. When he was in position, Kenobi contacted Windu to tell him what he knew of the plan. Later that night, despite Skywalker and Windu's efforts during the skirmish, the Chancellor was kidnapped by Bane and Eval. Kenobi followed them with Windu and Skywalker close behind, and the criminal pair was arrested and the Chancellor recovered when they stopped at the rendezvous point.[77]

However, he agreed on Skywalker's doubts about knowing the full truth, and returned to the apartment where he had had his position as a sniper, and discovered an activated comlink in his rifle case. Realizing Dooku's hand in it, Kenobi rushed back to the Royal Palace, where he discovered Skywalker dueling with Dooku, while Palpatine was held by a MagnaGuard. Kenobi rescued the Chancellor and Dooku fled, and Palpatine thanked the Jedi for their bravery.[77]
Maul's returnEdit
"You know, when I cut you in half, I should have aimed for your neck instead."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Maul[src]
Like Master Yoda and Skywalker, Kenobi sensed a disturbance in the Force[78], one that signaled the return of his old enemy, Darth Maul, whom he believed to have killed on Naboo, only to have survived and make his way to a dump in Lotho Minor. Rescued by Savage Oppress and his sanity restored by Mother Talzin, Maul sent a message to the Jedi Council and lured Kenobi to Raydonia.[79]

MaulVsKenobi-Revenge
Kenobi facing a vengeful Darth Maul.
Though the Jedi Master was unsure if Maul was who he claimed to be, the Dathomirian proved it by telling him about their shared experience at the Battle of Naboo. The two engaged in a fight where Opress helped Maul knock the Jedi Master out. Kenobi was then brought aboard the brother's ship, who intended to have the Jedi awake so that his death would be as painful as the last ten years of his life had been. However, Kenobi was rescued by Asajj Ventress, who was trying to collect the bounty on Savage Opress' head. Though he almost gave in to rage, Kenobi gained the upper hand with the help of Ventress and together, they managed to trap Maul and Opress in the back of the ship, leaving the brothers stranded, but alive, in space.[79]

OnderonEdit
"Now, to be clear, we are not here to fight your war; rather, to show you how to conduct it in the most efficient and successful way possible."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Kenobi attended a session of the Jedi Council when rebels Saw Gerrera and Lux Bonteri contacted them with a request for assistance in their struggle against the Separatist forces on Onderon, led by King Sanjay Rash. Kenobi pointed out that at the beginning of the war, Onderon made their intentions to join the Separatists, but Gerrera said that their true king was silenced by the fake. The Council refused to help, but did consent to send advisers to train and advise them. Kenobi went there with Skywalker, Tano and Rex.[80]

On Onderon, Kenobi met the rebels and their charismatic leader Steela Gerrera – alongside his friends and together, they began to train the rebels in combat. When the Separatists discovered their outpost and attacked, Kenobi and his fellow Jedi assisted in battle, though cautious not to be in the thick of the battle. When the skirmish concluded, a strategy was devised to get into the capital city of Iziz.[80] Once in there, Kenobi, Skywalker and Rex decided to leave for Coruscant to report to the Council, leaving Tano as a liaison to the rebels. However, they decided to ensure that Tano did not reveal her Jedi identity, though allowing her to accompany the rebels on strike.[81] After that, they kept in frequent communication with her.[81][82][83] Kenobi attended the funeral service for Steela after the final battle after she had perished.[83]
Younglings in troubleEdit
"For now, be proud. You have survived an ordeal few your age could. Welcome home, young Jedi."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
While Obi-Wan Kenobi was stationed aboard his flagship, the Star Destroyer Negotiator, he was contacted by Jedi initiates aboard the transport Crucible, who informed him that their guardian, Ahsoka Tano, had been kidnapped by Hondo Ohnaka's pirates. The younglings said they wanted to rescue Tano from the pirates, but Kenobi told them to stay on the Crucible for their safety.[84]

YoullRegretThat-BFR
Kenobi faces off with Grievous in the Negotiator hangar.
Kenobi was intending to send Commander Cody to rescue the stranded Jedi, but his plans were interrupted by an unforeseen attack by General Grievous on his fleet. Grievous's ships quickly gained the upper hand on Kenobi's, destroying several of his vessels. Upon learning that Grievous had sent a boarding party to board his ship, Kenobi and the clone forces on the ship stationed themselves in the hanger in order to repel it. Grievous himself accompanied the boarding party, and Kenobi began dueling with him as the clone troopers and battle droids engaged each other. Soon, however, Kenobi realized that this was a battle that he could not win, and as he retreated through the passageways of the Star Destroyer he ordered the crew to abandon ship and initiated the ship's self-destruct sequence. When Grievous arrived on the bridge, he found a hologram recording of Kenobi. Through it, Kenobi conceded the victory to Grievous but informed him that the ship was about to explode. Kenobi escaped the destruction on an escape pod, as did Grievous, who evacuated Kenobi's ship on a shuttle just before it exploded.[84]

Soon after, Kenobi joined Tano, the younglings, who had gone to rescue Tano despite Kenobi's orders,[84] and members of the pirate gang, including Ohnaka himself. After Grievous's defeat of Kenobi, he had attacked the pirates' stronghold, and the Jedi and pirates had joined forces against Grievous and barely escaped with their lives.[85]
Mandalore's fallEdit
"You can kill me, but you will never destroy me. It takes strength to resist the dark side. Only the weak embrace it."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to Darth Maul[src]
When the two brothers attacked Cybloc transfer station in the Meridian sector, the space station sent out a distress signal, leading Kenobi and Adi Gallia there to investigate about the two brothers, who were now operating under Maul's singular vision. The Jedi learned they were headed to Florrum. There, Kenobi contacted Hondo Ohnaka to inquire about the situation, who said that "two horned men" had showed up and threatened to attack his stronghold with pirates who had betrayed him. Kenobi told him he was unable help him with his men, but that he could help stop the Sith.[86]

TwoOnWan-Revival
Obi-Wan Kenobi fights Darth Maul and Savage Opress
Kenobi and Gallia managed to engage Maul and Opress just as they began their attack on Florrum. As the fight progressed, Gallia was slain by Opress and, after taking up his fallen comrade's lightsaber to help defend himself, Kenobi was forced to retreat and reunite with Onhaka. Inside a cave, Ohnaka decided to ambush the men while Kenobi decided to confront Maul and Opress. With great skill and Gallia's lightsaber, Kenobi violently fought the pair, injuring Opress' knee and cutting his left arm off. However, before Kenobi could continue the fight, Maul Force-pushed him into another part of the cave, bringing the fight to an end. Realizing their plan had failed, the Dathomirans left and headed off-planet to try again another time. Their ship, however, was shot down and the two were forced to head for an escape pod. As the ship fell, Kenobi went with Hondo to see "what riches [had] fallen from the sky," but there were no signs of Maul nor Opress, leaving Kenobi to doubt their demise.[86]

Following the confrontation, Kenobi returned to Coruscant where he explained to Chancellor Palpatine about the situation regarding Darth Maul, but Palpatine dismissed the Maul's threat, saying that the Jedi needed to focus on the Separatist threat, despite Kenobi's fears of the criminal underworld being a place where Maul could flourish.[86]
Following Maul's takeover of Mandalore, Kenobi was summoned to meet with Yoda and Ki-Adi-Mundi in the communications room. The two showed him a transmission that had been sent by Satine Kryze from Mandalore. In the message, she stated that her government had been overthrown by rogue criminals, only for the transmission to be abruptly cut. Despite Yoda and Mundi's reluctance to take part in the internal affairs of Mandalore, Kenobi borrowed the Twilight from Skywalker and headed to Sundari. Once on the planet, he tricked a guard and took his armor.[87]
HoldMeObiWanKenobi-TL
Satine Kryze dying in the arms of Kenobi.
Disguised, he freed Kryze from the prison and managed to get all the way to the faulty ship. Realizing that he has arrived, Maul personally hunted down Kenobi and managed to ensure that the Twilight was shot down before it could leave. After the Jedi jumped from the doomed ship, Maul captured the now-dizzy Kenobi as Opress lifted an unconscious Kryze, and ordered them taken back to the royal palace.[87]

Maul, realizing Kenobi's feelings for Satine, decided to execute her with Kenobi watching hoping that he would feel the same pain Maul did when he was forced to live in exile after being brutally injured by Kenobi on Naboo. Maul again attempted to sway Kenobi to the darkside, but the Jedi Master refused. Angered by the comment, as the commandos forced Kenobi to his knees, Maul let Satine go, but stabbed her with the darksaber. She ultimately died in Obi-Wan's arms saying with her last breath, that she always loved him and always would. Maul, then, had his guards escort Kenobi to a cell where he could "drown in his misery" and "rot."[87]
BoKatanFreesKenobi-TL
Kenobi freed by Bo-Katan.
Bo-Katan and her renegade Nite Owls team, however, intercepted Kenobi as he was being transferred to the prison area. Katan freed Kenobi, and had him help her find Maul and kill him. Meanwhile, unbeknownst to them, Darth Sidious appeared and engaged Maul and Opress in a duel, defeating the former and killing the latter. As the conflict escalated, Kenobi made his way to his ship and was told by Bo-Katan to warn the Republic of what had happened. Kenobi told her that it would lead to an invasion of Mandalore, but she said that Maul's death would be worth it, and that they would survive. Kenobi, before leaving, asked Bo-Katan if Satine was her sister, and apologized for her loss.[87]

A Jedi's trialEdit
"Surely we cannot do what Tarkin suggests. We need to stand together with Ahsoka."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Following the bombing at the Jedi Temple, Kenobi took part of the Jedi Council meeting in which Yoda and Windu requested that Skywalker and Tano investigate the incident and find the culprit, telling to suspect even their fellow Jedi. When Tano and Skywalker told the Council of their progress―following a clue that led them to Jackar Bowmani, Kenobi was present again as a hologram.[88] Kenobi also attended to the funeral for the victims of the bombing.[89]

ChamberOfJudgement-TWJ
Kenobi as part of the Council of Judgement.
Later on, Kenobi was made aware of a Separatist attack on Saleucami. To alert his fellow Jedi in the Jedi Temple's war room, and held a conference where he was suggested for their fleets to move to the Anoat system and move across to Saleucami, when he was interrupted by Admiral Tarkin, who told the Council that Tano was requested by Letta Turmond.[89]

Following Tano's escape from authorities to prove her innocence, Kenobi along with the rest of the Jedi High Council, and Skywalker, held a emergency meeting with Tarkin declaring to them that Tano was now accused of sedition. With Skywalker and Plo Koon doubtful of her guilt, Grand Master Yoda sent the two to find her, but Windu attempted to have Skywalker left out of the matter, believing having him involved would only making things worse due to his emotional bond with Tano. However, Kenobi convinced the Council otherwise, stating Skywalker knew Tano best and that it would be foolish to take him off the mission.[90]
After her capture, Kenobi listened to Tarkin as he informed the Council that the Senate requested for Tano to be expelled from the Jedi Order and turned over to the Republic military so she could receive more "impartial" judgement. Kenobi tried to convince his fellow Council members that they should side with Tano, but they all refused to do so, as they feared that protecting Tano would damage their ties with the Senate. Despite his reluctance to hand Tano over to the Republic, Kenobi took part of Tano's trial in the Chamber of Judgment, where the Council stripped the young Togruta of her rank and status as a Jedi.[91]
Like other members of the Council, Kenobi was present during Tano's military trial as presided over by Chancellor Palpatine and during Barriss Offee's confession, which confirmed Tano's innocence. Along with the Council, Kenobi agreed that Tano should rejoin the Order and was present when Windu and Yoda proclaimed her to be a true Jedi, worthy of becoming a Jedi Knight, only for her to refuse readmission. When Skywalker ran after Tano, Kenobi started to follow, but Plo Koon placed a hand on his shoulder, silently advising him not to. Despite Skywalker's attempts to convince her to reconsider, Tano parted with the Jedi.[91]
Kaminoan conspiracyEdit
"The clone in question is now dead, and the Jedi still suspect nothing."
―Count Dooku, to Darth Sidious[src]
After one of Skywalker's clone troopers, Tup, murdered Jedi General Tiplar during a battle on Ringo Vinda and had been sent to Kamino for examination[92], Shaak Ti held a meeting with the Jedi Council, of which Kenobi took part of. Between her wanting an atomic brain scan on Tup and Nala Se wanting to terminate the clone and do an autopsy, Kenobi asked what did the Kaminoan thought of her and advised her that Tup be brought back to the Jedi Temple where he would be examined through the Force.[93] However, the full extent of the Kaminoans' plot was only revealed to Fives, who died before he could warn the Jedi of Order 66.[94][95]

Clovis returnsEdit
"Anakin, I understand to a degree what is going on. You've met Satine. You know I once harbored feelings for her. It's not that we're not allowed to have these feelings. It's natural."
"Senator Amidala and I are simply friends."
"And friends you must remain. As a Jedi, it is essential you make the right choice, Anakin, for the Order."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Anakin Skywalker[src]
Following Senator Amidala's mission to Scipio where she cooperated with Rush Clovis to expose the InterGalactic Banking Clan[96] and Skywalker's continuous demonstrations of animosity towards Clovis, Kenobi visited Skywalker to discuss his and Yoda's concerns that his judgment regarding Clovis were "clouded" after the event on Cato Neimoidia. Kenobi told Skywalker that he could not let his feelings for Amidala get in the way of his judgement.[97] Nevertheless, Skywalker was right to distrust Clovis, as his actions not only endangered Senator Amidala's life once again, but also put the Banking Clan under the direct control of Chancellor Palpatine, thus giving Darth Sidious more power in his quest to form a New Order.[98]

Sifo-Dyas' secretEdit
"The creation of the clone army, kept secret from us Sifo-Dyas did. How this was done we know not, yet now a new piece of the puzzle we have. Perhaps clarity it will bring us, yes."
―Yoda[src]
After Jedi Master Plo Koon intercepted a distress call from a shuttle once thought to have been lost and discovered Sifo-Dyas's lightsaber, he took of the meeting in which Plo Koon informed the Jedi Council of his findings, and Kenobi reminded them that Sifo-Dyas had spearheaded the creation of the Clone Army. Relaunching the investigation of the Jedi Master's death, Kenobi and Skywalker were sent to Felucia to find out what happened to Sifo-Dyas, where they spoke to the tribal leaders. Kenobi was told that the Felucians had cremated his body and that a another Jedi had been with him when he was killed, and reported their findings to Master Yoda.[99]

EpGuide610
Kenobi and Skywalker's meeting with the leader of the Pyke Syndicate.
The two were then sent to Oba Diah when former Chancellor, Finis Valorum told Yoda that Sifo-Dyas had been sent to negotiate with the Pyke Syndicate to stop an underground war. Valorum, however, said that there was no other Jedi sent alongside Syfo-Dyas, but rather his personal aide Silman. On Oba Diah, Kenobi and Skywalker met Lom Pyke, who denied any involvement until Kenobi noticed that he was wearing the crest of Valorum and Skywalker grabbed the necklace and told the Pyke to "stop playing games." Lom finally complied with the Jedi, and told them that they had been paid by a man called Tyranus to shoot Sifo-Dyas's shuttle down. However, as they feared that anyone who paid for the death of a Jedi was dangerous, they kept Silman locked away for ten years as insurance.[99]

However, once they met Silman, they realized he had gone mad after being locked up for so long, and were unable to learn much from him as Dooku arrived to kill him before Kenobi and Skywalker's eyes. After engaging Dooku in combat, they learned that the man called Tyranus was, in fact, the Count. After he managed to escape, they informed the Council of their findings, only for them to question why Dooku had been behind the creation of the clone army, and what the game of the yet-unidentified Dark Lord of the Sith was.[99]
Yoda's journeyEdit
"Yet, open to us, a path remains that unknown to the Sith is. Through this path, victory we may yet find. Not victory in the Clone Wars but victory for all time."
―Yoda, to Mace Windu and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
EpGuide611
Yoda conferring with the High Council, including Kenobi.
During a meeting with the High Council, Kenobi like the rest of his peers noticed Grand Master Yoda's absent-mindedness following his communion with Kenobi's late master, Qui-Gon Jinn. Later, Windu conferred in private with Kenobi that he was worried about Yoda's turmoil and asked him to keep an eye on the old Jedi Master. Soon, however, Yoda revealed to the Council in full that a voice spoke to him from beyond, prompting Kenobi and the entire Council to perform a joint meditation with him, but they heard nothing. Though Master Mundi surmised it could be a deception by the Sith, but Kenobi dismissed the idea, believing Yoda could not be susceptible to such manipulation, but Windu replied that, even as wise and old as he was, Yoda was not beyond the corruption of the dark side.[100]

Submitting himself for medical examination, Kenobi, Windu and Mundi were told by Rig Nema that Yoda was in perfect mental health, even if he approached nine hundredth year of life. Though Mundi suggested the Dark Lord of the Sith could be using Yoda's connection to Dooku, Kenobi vehemently rejected the idea, saying they all had been apprenticed to Yoda at one point or another. Before the discussion could go on, Nema then suggested a deprivation ritual for Yoda to reach Jinn's voice. During the procedure, Kenobi, Skywalker, Mundi and Plo Koon watched over the small Jedi, Yoda managed to hear Jinn's instruction to go to the Dagobah system before Kenobi noticed his vital signs were dropping too low and stopped the test. When asked about the procedure by Windu, Kenobi told him Yoda was sure he had contacted the dead and, like most, he was in disbelief about the whole ordeal, only for Windu to place guards to keep an eye on Yoda and the small Jedi Master to escape with Skywalker's help and R2-D2's company, willing to go on a journey that would take him to Dagobah, a mysterious planet and Moraband.[100][101][102]
On Yoda's return to Coruscant, Kenobi and Windu greeted him, and Windu asked him if he had gained some insight on how to win the war, but the old Jedi Master told them that he no longer believed that the Jedi could win the Clone Wars but that, through hope and perseverance, the Jedi would ultimately triumph over the Sith.[102]
Utapau's crystal crisisEdit
"How well would you sleep, knowing that I failed you?"
"Not very well, I imagine. Luckily, that isn't true, and never will be."
―Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
During the last months of the war, Kenobi and Skywalker were sent to Utapau to investigate the mysterious death of Jedi Master Tu-Anh. Once they landed on Pau City, they met Inspector Jen June who immediately led the morgue the Jedi's corpse was located. Immediately, the two Jedi examine her body. Soon enough, they went to the place where she had been found, only to determine she had been hit in the optic nerve with a precision laser dart by a sniper. As they found the sniper's position, they found slime on the floor and interrogated the building's owner, Garri, from whom the two Jedi learned of the involvement of MagnaGuards. Later, they asked Inspector June to analyze the slimy substance; she told them it was the secretion of an Amani's skin, and added that the Governor Torul Blom wanted to see them.[103]

A Death on Utapau Ep
Kenobi and Skywalker speaking to Inspector June.
Though the Governor asked them to leave Utapau, Kenobi and Skywalker persevered and rented two dactillions to go to the city's lower levels and talk to the leader of an Amani tribe there. Told that an Amani outcast had been seen entering a cave not far from there, Kenobi thanked him, and he and Skywalker went to the cave, where they found the MagnaGuards, leading them to suspect of a Separatist conspiracy. Despite some resistance, they managed to get information from the droids that showed them the involvement of the Sugi and went to see Inspector June once again. After she identified the Amani as coming from the plain, Kenobi contacted the Council to inform them of their findings and later attended together with Skywalker, attended the funeral of Tu-Anh.[103]

Soon after, they reached the Amani settlement they had been looking for, only for their dactillions to be killed and for the Amani to scatter in every direction during the ensuing confrontation, leaving Skywalker and Kenobi to follow the tracks of one that appeared to be their leader. During the hunt, Skywalker mentioned Tano for the first time since her departure, and Kenobi asked if he wanted to talk about it, yet Skywalker refused. Kenobi then suggested for them to set up a camp and rest. However, he insisted on the subject, prompting Skywalker to tell Kenobi he missed Tano and to voice his anger at the High Council for turning its back on her. In response, Kenobi asserted that it had been Tano's decision to leave, and that she had allowed her emotions to cloud her judgement, something against the Jedi way. Then, Kenobi suggested him to rest, but Skywalker declined so that he could keep the first watch. Finally, he questioned Kenobi on what would happen if he had turned out to be a "major disappointment," but Kenobi wanted to believe it would never happen.[104]
Crystal Crisis Ep
Kenobi and Skywalker defending a massive kyber crystal.
However, they both fell asleep and were captured by a group of Sugis led by Chong, who brought them before Endente as Kenobi told Chong of their "intention" to buy weapons. However, they learned Endente was, in fact, selling a kyber crystal and Skywalker prompted him to show it before they made the deal. The two Jedi were then brought to the starship where the crystal was being kept and escaped from their captors. Once Skywalker took out all the Sugi and recovered their lightsabers from Chong, they were unable to capture Endente and discovered the massive kyber crystal inside the ship.[104] Despite being attacked, the two Jedi managed to transport the crystal through Utapau's plains until they reached Pau City, where Governor Blom showed them his true colors and had the two Jedi surrounded with his men and Grievous's droids. As the kyber crystal was loaded into a shuttle and sent to ship on orbit, Kenobi and Skywalker took June and Blom as hostages, so that their underlings stopped shooting at them, and stole a freighter to recover the crystal.[105]

Big Bang Ep
Kenobi and Skywalker planning to escape.
During the persecution, Kenobi contacted the High Council to inform them of their current course of action, and Grievous soon damaged their ship, forcing them to crash the ship to damage the hyperdrive and board the ship where the crystal was then held. However, they got separated, and Kenobi landed in a hangar full of droids, where he was soon confronted and captured by Grievous. Following Dooku's orders to execute him, Kenobi was being escorted to the execution room until Skywalker rescued him. Together, their made their way to the kyber crystal at the vault, where they were temporarily trapped until a squad discovered them. Using the crystal and the Force to knock them out, he managed to get to a hangar where Skywalker got a shuttle for them to escape. Meanwhile, Kenobi set several AATs to shoot and overload the crystal, destroying the crystal and the ship, and escaping from the explosion in the nick of time.[18]

Back on Coruscant, Kenobi and Skywalker reported to the Council about the outcome of their mission, when Yoda told them of the use of kyber crystals on weapons of unimaginable power in ancient times.[18]
AnaxesEdit
"From Anakin I expect this type for authority."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
With mounting losses on the Republic side in the battle for Anaxes and Captain Rex’s successful mission to a Separatist cyber center with the assistance of Clone Force 99 to discover if General Trench was in possession of Rex's algorithm[106], Kenobi was present when Rex proposed a rescue mission to Skako Minor to the Jedi Council and subsequently rejected. Sometime later, Kenobi suspected Skywalker of attempting to go forward with the mission, and confronted him, Echo and Hunter. To Kenobi's surprise, Rex revealed the mission to be his plan, and that it was more than a simple rescue mission for the Separatists had his algorithm. Seeing their determination, Kenobi allowed them to go, saying "May the Force be with you".[107]

After their success, Kenobi took part on Windu's debriefing on the strategy to take the Separatist assembly complex by air, when Echo posed his plan to be escorted by the Bad Batch into Trench's new comm vault on a dreadnought on the planet's orbit and plug himself to feed the Separatist's strategic movements. Kenobi took part on the assault and the combined efforts managed to take the complex under their control and, with all other fronts falling to the Republic, Trench initiated a countdown for an explosion that could destroy most of Anaxes. While Windu deactivated the bomb, Kenobi assisted in the evacuation efforts; with Trench's death at the hands of Skywalker and his fleet's destruction, Windu, Kenobi and Skywalker handed medals to the heroes of the campaign: Captain Rex, Corporal Echo and the "Bad Batch".[108]
Vos and VentressEdit
"You were fighting her and chatting at the same time?"
"It's... Banter."
"You flirted with her?"
"Come now, Vos, you can't tell me you managed to go undercover in all sorts of shady places without flirting yourself."
―Quinlan Vos and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Upon Mahranee's fall and the destruction of General Chubor's refugee-carrier Republic frigate by Dooku's decision, Kenobi participated in council meeting along with Skywalker, where it was decided to bring about the Count's assassination, for they had reached the conclusion that all that had transpired in the war had been because of Dooku. Though Kenobi was against the idea, he nevertheless suggested Quinlan Vos to be deployed for the mission.[9]

Once Vos returned to Coruscant from his covert mission in Otor's Hub after ending Sheb Valaad's black market operation, Kenobi greeted him at the Jedi Temple and accompanied him to the Jedi Council Chamber. There, Vos was informed of his mission, and Ventress's role in it; Vos accepted. At the end of the session, Kenobi went to Vos' encounter at the dining hall and gave him more details about Ventress's character. Afterwards, Kenobi and Vos would prearrange to meet at a bar in Level 1313 so that Vos would keep him appraised of his progress at regular intervals. Vos' absence in their third and fourth would-be encounters forced Kenobi to report to the Council.[9]
At one such meeting, Ventress was the one to appear at the bar, after her mission to rescue Vos from Serenno after he had been captured following their failed attempt to kill Dooku, she told Kenobi that they had lost Vos to Dooku and the dark side; the two sat there, together, for a long time. Kenobi would later make mention of their encounter to his fellow Jedi, among them Akar-Deshu.[9]
Maul's trailEdit
"My emotions are under control, Master Tiplee. I will not fail you or this mission."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
Following the Battle on Ord Mantell, Kenobi was sent to Ord Mantell to investigate who the Separatist forces had been fighting, alongside Jedi Masters Tiplee, Mace Windu and Aayla Secura. Though the Shadow Collective had managed to collect most traces of their presence in the city, Wolffe and his men uncovered a Mandalorian helmet outside the town, which led the four Jedi on the trail of Maul.[109]

Assault on Mandalorian supply outpost
Kenobi and Tiplee assaulting Maul's hideout.
Aware of the Black Sun's presence on the system, and the location of Vizsla Keep 09, a Mandalorian supply outpost suspected to be Maul's hideout, Kenobi and Tiplee led an assault to lock the place down until reinforcements arrived. However, as they tried to reach the command center, Maul and Count Dooku appeared to duel the two Jedi, with Windu and Secura joining them soon afterwards. Despite their advantage over the Sith, Tiplee was killed by Dooku, and a Mandalorian assisted Maul by setting off an explosion that injured Windu and Secura. The Sith, then, managed to escape as Maul told Kenobi not to worry, as they would be seeing each other again soon; his alliance with Dooku leaving the Jedi perplexed as to what had just happened.[109]

Vos' rescueEdit
"Ventress is at fault, yes, and of course Dooku. But this, Masters...this one is our responsibility. We owe Vos the chance to choose again, and, with our help, wisely."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, to the Council[src]
Upon Akar-Deshu's meeting with Asajj Ventress, Kenobi and Skywalker met with them and Kenobi promised her that she would come to no harm within the Temple, and brought her to the Council chambers. Despite Windu's open disapproval, Yoda allowed Kenobi and Skywalker to go with Ventress to rescue Vos. Soon enough, Kenobi, Skywalker and Ventress were on the cockpit of her ship, the Banshee, to infiltrate the Separatist dreadnought where Vos, or rather "Admiral Enigma", was issuing orders from.[9]

Stealthily, the three made their way to the bridge where Skywalker dueled Dooku, while Kenobi and Ventress discovered Vos was still being held captive by the Count. However, Ventress saw through his ruse and tried to relieve Vos from an existence consumed by hatred, but Kenobi convinced her to escape before taking such a drastic action. Barely escaping on the Banshee, they made their way back to Coruscant, and Kenobi saw as the Council welcomed Vos and pardoned Ventress.[9]
Fall and redemptionEdit
"You misunderstand, Master Windu. All of you. She didn't just save his life. She saved Quinlan. And...I believe she may have saved us."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, on Asajj Ventress[src]
A month later, Kenobi was sent alongside Skywalker, Vos and Akar-Deshu in a mission to take over a Separatist supply storage base and redistribute the supplies to worlds in need of them. However, their mission went awry when Vos, unbeknownst to them, arranged the base's destruction. Later on, Kenobi and Vos would be deployed to a listening post on Vanqor, but their second fruitless campaign in a row made Kenobi suspicious of a leak. He confided his feelings to Yoda and Windu, leading them to suspect Vos was the leak. Kenobi would later be summoned by Yoda to tell him that he had sensed concealed darkness in Vos' soul, and the Council arranged an emergency session, in which they entertained the option of executing Vos'. Kenobi, however, protested against the idea, and suggested sending Vos again to assassinate Dooku to test his allegiances.[9]

Afterwards, Vos had Ventress tell the Council of the Count and Grievous' presence on Christophsis, and the two set out on their mission aboard the Banshee. Kenobi and Skywalker followed suit and spied on Vos, who reunited with Dooku; they observed as the two dueled, when Vos gained the upper hand just as he let Dooku live as long as he told him about his Master's whereabouts. It was then that Kenobi and Skywalker intervened, taking the pair by surprised, and placed them under arrest. The two soon escaped from the Vigilance, causing the death of Akar-Deshu and the Chagrian Kav Bayons, and boarded the Banshee, but Skywalker's quick thinking forced the renegades to crash land on the planet.[9]
The two Jedi pursued the three injured renegades to a Separatist tower, where they surrounded them, where he and Skywalker witnessed Ventress' last moments. They transported Vos back to Coruscant where the fallen Jedi confessed all his crimes and Kenobi defended Ventress. After being placed under Yoda's supervision for some time, Vos was released to Kenobi's care to take Ventress' body back to Dathomir, where she would be finally reunited with her sisters.[9]
Coruscant and UtapauEdit
"So uncivilized."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi after killing General Grievous with a blaster[src]
Kenobi-EpIII
Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi at the end of the Clone Wars.
Following Chancellor Palpatine's capture by General Grievous and his full-scale attack over the skies of Coruscant, Kenobi and Skywalker returned from the Outer Rim Sieges to lead a mission to rescue the Chancellor before Grievous and his fleet could flee the besieged capital. The two Jedi fought their way through a Separatist blockade and managed to board the Invisible Hand, only to find the Chancellor being held prisoner at the top of the ship's observation spire. Not long after they arrived to the room, Count Dooku appeared before them and the two Jedi engaged him in a duel.[8]

Though Dooku managed to gain the upper hand and knocked Kenobi out cold, Skywalker was able to defeat the Sith Lord, and subsequently executed him at Palpatine's urging. He then rescued Kenobi, carrying him until he woke up when they were hanging in an elevator. As they got out of there and ran through hallway 328, Grievous had them trapped in a ray shield and brought to the Invisible Hand’s control room. The cyborg General personally taunted them, giving R2-D2 enough time to free them and for Kenobi and Skywalker to confront Grievous. The General, however, escaped in an escape pod and forced the two Jedi to pilot the ship and land on Coruscant as safely as they could. Following the ordeal, they escorted the Chancellor to the Senate building, where they separated, with Kenobi going back to Jedi Temple to report to the Council.[8]
Council RotS
Kenobi on the Jedi Council.
Later, Kenobi attended another meeting, concerning the reports on the Outer Rim sieges, including Saleucami's fall and the move of Quinlan Vos' troops to Boz Pity. At the end of the session, he met with Skywalker and told him to be careful with Palpatine, and that Palpatine had requested his presence for unknown reasons. Soon enough, Kenobi and the Council were made aware that the Chancellor had Skywalker appointed as his Personal Representative on the Jedi Council; though the Council approved of the appointment, they denied Skywalker the rank of Jedi Master. During the same meeting, Kenobi discussed the importance of Kashyyyk, prompting Master Yoda to assist the Wookiees himself.[8]

At the end of the meeting, Kenobi acknowledged to Skywalker that his appointment had been accepted so that, on behalf of the Council, Skywalker could spy on the Chancellor. Later, before Yoda's departure to Kashyyk, Kenobi conferred with Windu and Yoda of Skywalker's reluctant compliance on his task, when he heard of Windu's distrust of the Jedi Knight and Yoda's doubts about the prophecy of the "Chosen One."[8]
Obiwanshoots
Kenobi shoots Grievous with his own blaster.
Following the Chancellor's disclosure of General Grievous' location on Utapau to Skywalker, who then passed it onto the Council, Kenobi was sent to capture the fugitive General. Before parting, though, Skywalker apologized to Kenobi, who told him that he needed patience and that he would soon become a master. Then, the Jedi Master departed for Utapau, where he managed to sneak up on the Separatists with help of a varactyl, Boga, and confront Grievous personally. The cyborg then challenged Kenobi in lightsaber combat, but the Jedi managed to cut two of Grievous' arms; the General gained the upper hand until Kenobi's battalion arrived and engaged the droids protecting Grievous. As battle intensified, Grievous escaped, with Kenobi chasing him—at the cost of losing his lightsaber temporarily—to a landing platform where he finally killed Grievous with a blaster, after almost being kicked off the platform. With his long-time rival slain at last, Kenobi headed off to rejoin his troops.[8]

Order 66Edit
"My clone troops turned on me. I need help."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Bail Organa[src]
Following Windu and other Council member's duel against Chancellor Palpatine, revealed to be Darth Sidious, and the issue of Order 66, Kenobi met up with Commander Cody and told him to contact the troops to move to the higher levels of the city. The clone then returned him his lightsaber, and Kenobi proceeded to climb with Boga, just as Cody received a direct message from Palpatine, telling him to execute the order. Before Kenobi went too far, Cody ordered his men to shoot at the Jedi Master, bringing his fall to the water below. However, unlike many others, he survived and managed to climb on his own while evading troops, only to discover it had been an intentional attack from his own troops.[8]

Obi-Wan Kenobi and Bail Organa Discuss The Situation
Kenobi and Bail Organa discussing with Yoda.
Taking Grievous' starfighter, he left Utapau and made contact with Senator Bail Organa, who had seen the attack on the Jedi Temple firsthand and was trying to locate other surviving Jedi. Reuniting on the Tantive III, Kenobi met with the Senator and Master Yoda, who told him of the retreat message telling all Jedi to return to the Temple, saying that the war was over. Kenobi then suggested to dismantle the signal, so that others wouldn't fall into the trap, and Yoda agreed.[8]

On their way to Coruscant, Organa was contacted by Vice Chancellor Amedda, who told him of emergency session to held by the Senate. Kenobi and Yoda entered the Jedi Temple and witnessed with their own eyes the massacre that just taken place. During that, Chancellor Palpatine told the Senate of the Jedi's "sedition" against the Republic and declared the birth of the Galactic Empire.
Age of the EmpireEdit
The fallen apprenticeEdit
"It can't be. It can't be."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi learns that Anakin Skywalker has turned to the Dark Side[src]
At the central security station of the Jedi Temple, Kenobi changed the Jedi recall signal into a holographic message of himself, warning any of the surviving Jedi to stay away from the Temple and the planet, persevere for the future and to trust in the Force.[8][28][110][111]

Shock
Kenobi watches a Hologram of his once apprentice with Darth Sidious
Desperate for answers and despite Yoda's warning, Kenobi checked the security recordings to find that Skywalker had led his battalion of clones to attack the Temple, where he fought the Jedi and kneeled to the newly-proclaimed Emperor, who was proud of his apprentice, now going by a new name—"Vader".[8] Though Kenobi was horrified, Yoda determined that they had to destroy the Sith; Kenobi, however, refused to fight Vader and requested that he be sent to kill the Emperor instead, but Yoda vetoed the idea. Kenobi expressed that Skywalker was like a brother to him and that he did not have the heart to kill him, yet Yoda explained that the boy he had trained no longer existed and that he needed to be put out of his misery. He also told Kenobi to use his instincts to find Vader.

After that, he visited Senator Amidala, thinking she knew of Vader's location. As Amidala refused to believe Kenobi's words of Skywalker turning to the dark side and abstained of telling him about his whereabouts, Kenobi asked if Skywalker was the father of the child she bore and apologized before leaving her apartment.[8]
Duel on MustafarEdit
"Only a Sith deals in absolutes. I will do what i must."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Darth Vader[src]
Unbeknownst to Amidala, Kenobi stowed away in her star skiff, just as she and C-3PO departed for the Mustafar system to meet with Vader, who had already killed the Separatist leaders taking refuge there. Hiding in one of the compartments, Kenobi emerged from the ship, only for Vader to think she had brought Kenobi to kill him and choked her in rage. As Kenobi checked her vital signs, Vader accused him of trying to turn her against him, but the Jedi Master stated that his anger and lust for power had already done that, and that he had allowed Sidious to twist his mind until he became the very thing he had sworn to destroy.[8]

Anakin vs Obiwan
Kenobi fights Vader on Mustafar.
Unaffected by the Jedi's "lies" and unafraid of the dark side, Vader told Kenobi that if he wasn't on his side, then, he was his enemy. Realizing that he spoke like a Sith would, Kenobi vowed to stop him at all costs, prompting the two to engage in a brutal duel that caused substantial damage to the facility, just as Yoda and the Emperor dueled in the Senate. Ultimately, Kenobi and Vader were hovering over the lava, when the Jedi Master reflected on his failure while Vader stated that he should have known about the Jedi's lust for power and their evil.[8]

Eventually, Kenobi jumped to high ground on the embankment of the lava river, gaining advantage over Vader. Despite Kenobi's warning not to try the jump, the Sith apprentice ignored him and did so anyway, allowing Kenobi to sever his remaining natural arm and both legs in one strike. Heartbroken over his former pupil's fall to the dark side, Kenobi retrieved Vader's lightsaber and tearfully expressed his disgust and sadness over Vader's fate, telling him how he had loved him like a brother. As Vader's clothes ignited, severely burning him, Kenobi left him to his apparent fate and returned to Amidala's ship, where C-3PO had already managed to bring her back on board. When she asked if Skywalker was all right, Kenobi did not respond and let her rest as they left the planet.[8]
Birth of the Skywalker-TwinsEdit
GH-7: ""Medically, she is completely healthy. For reasons we can't explain, we are losing her.""
Kenobi: "She's dying?"
GH-7: "We don't know why. She has lost the will to live. We need to operate quickly if we are to save the babies."
Organa: "Babies?"
GH-7: "She's carrying twins."
―GH-7 medical droid, Obi-Wan Kenobi and Bail Organa[src]
Midwife droid 1
Kenobi at the birth of the twins.
Just as the Emperor rescued Vader and gave him prosthetic limbs and a life-support suit, Kenobi, C-3PO and R2-D2 took Amidala to Polis Massa. There, he, along with Bail Organa and Yoda, were informed that the dying Amidala was carrying twins. Kenobi was in the birthing room with Amidala as she gave birth to her two children, Luke and Leia. As she took her final breath, Amidala told Kenobi she knew there was still good in Skywalker.[8]

After arriving on Naboo so that Amidala's funeral arrangements could be made, Yoda suggested that the children should be kept hidden and separated until the time was right: Organa would adopt Leia and take her to Alderaan as he and his wife, Breha, had always talked about adopting a baby girl and promised that Leia would be loved. Kenobi volunteered to take Luke to Tatooine where the boy would live with Skywalker's stepfamily, Owen and Beru Lars, and added that he would watch over him. As the trio prepared to go their separate ways, Yoda asked Kenobi for a moment of his time and revealed that he had training for him during his solitude on Tatooine, and that Qui-Gon Jinn had reached the path to immortality, having returned from the Netherworld of the Force. Yoda told Kenobi he would teach him on how to communicate with Jinn.[8]
Exile on TatooineEdit
The beginning
"And what of the boy?"
"To Tatooine. To his family send him"
"I will take the child and watch over him."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi and Yoda discuss the future of Luke Skywalker[src]
DeliveringLuke-ROTS
Kenobi giving Luke to Beru Lars.
While the twin suns set on Tatooine, Kenobi arrived at the Lars moisture farm and left Luke to his uncle and aunt, before leaving on an eopie, heading to his exile in the Jundland Wastes,[8] in a home surrounded by Western Dune Sea.[4][13] Within the first year of the Age of the Empire, Kenobi visited the grave of Shmi Skywalker Lars, mother of Anakin and spoke of how he was sad for what had happened to her once innocent and promising young son.[112]

To conceal his identity, he would use the alias of "Ben Kenobi", and forfeited the use of his lightsaber for years; however, he struggled to repress his sense of duty as a Jedi, he spent years battling monotony and inactivity,[14] and gained the reputation of being somewhat of an old hermit. At some point, Kenobi would be forbidden from seeing or training Luke, as Lars feared the boy would end up following his father's footsteps; nevertheless, Kenobi heard that the young Skywalker had become quite the pilot.[4]
The Journals of Ben Kenobi
Ben Kenobi saves young Luke
Kenobi saves 8-year-old Luke.
In preparation of Luke's future training, Kenobi wrote a set of journals and placed them in a box labeled "For Luke."[113] In one of his journals, Kenobi wrote about how he stopped Jabba the Hutt's men from collecting their "water tax" on the local farmers during the Great Drought,[14] eight years into his exile.[114] He kept Jabba's thugs from extorting the Lars family into paying their water tax; following his subtle use of the Force to cause the thugs' firearms to misfire so that wouldn't harm townspeople, he decided not to go into town anymore.[14]

That same night, he sensed Skywalker to be in danger, for the boy had gone to take the water back from Jabba's men and give it back to the farmers. Kenobi went to their encounter, but blew their vehicle's lights with the Force to hide his identity and proceeded to disable all of Jabba's henchmen with the Force. One of them became startled and pushed Skywalker to the ground, causing him to hit his head and pass out. Once Kenobi handled all the thugs, he carried Skywalker to the Lars' homestead and left before he woke up. Luke's courage assured Kenobi that it wasn't the end of the Jedi and renewed his up-until-then waning hope.[14]
A year later the Great Drought had ended, and Kenobi found himself observing a young Luke piloting a T-16 skyhopper through Beggar's Canyon. Kenobi noted how similar Luke was to his father Anakin, and expressed worry at the prospect. While attempting to impress his friends with an ostentatious maneuver through the canyon, Luke badly damaged the Skyhopper and was subsequently grounded from flying by his uncle. Kenobi, feeling sympathy for the boy, took a job protecting a Jawa sandcrawler that had been experiencing troublesome raids by Tusken Raiders. That night, Kenobi meditated outside of the sandcrawler, communing with Qui-Gon and expressing his hope in Luke's abilities. Soon the Tusken Raiders arrived and Kenobi able to easily dispatch the party with a disarmed raider's Gaderffii stick. He used whatever payment he earned from the job to hire the Jawa's to deliver the necessary parts to fix the Skyhopper. At a droid auction at an unidentified outpost, Luke received the the parts Kenobi had provided for him. Luke believed the parts had been a gift from his uncle and thanked Owen, as he eagerly rushed back home. Deriving pleasure from the boys enthusiasm, Kenobi grinned fondly as he observed from behind a nearby tent.[115]
Later that day in his hut, Kenobi was cooking dinner when he was interrupted by a visit from Owen. Owen had put two and two together, and sternly demanded that Kenobi have no part in his family's life. He had brought back the box of tools that he presumably confiscated from Luke, and dumped it on the floor of the hut. Kenobi responded back with several snarky replies before finally relenting and saying he that he only ever wanted to help. Owen continued to berate him, calling him dangerous and troublesome. As Owen departed, Kenobi regretfully admitted to himself that danger did in fact seemed to follow him. But he steeled his resolve and claimed that no danger would come to the young Skywalker boy as long as he lived. Coincidentally, Jabba the Hutt chose this time to send a Wookiee bounty hunter Black Krrsantan after Owen, who he believed was responsible for roughing up his tax collectors during the Great Drought.[115]
The next day, Owen had a change of heart and himself purchased a box of parts. He searched through the Lars homestead looking for Luke, hoping to fix the Skyhopper with the boy as a way to apologize for his coarse actions the previous day. However, he was ambushed by Black Krrsantan and kidnapped. Luke, in childish defiance, was running away from home. He made it a short distance out before sensing – likely through the Force – that something had gone awry at the homestead. Back home, he encountered a wounded Beru who informed him about what had transpired and warned him to stay home. She ran out of the house armed with a rifle, leaving Luke with the discarded pile of tools Owen had earlier dropped.[116]
While meditating in the Dune Sea among a herd of Banthas, Kenobi felt a disturbance in the Force. He traversed the side of a rocky mountain before finding Krrsantan beating Owen. In the ensuing conflict, Kenobi was trapped under a mesh of stun net that was dispatched by the Wookiee. Krrsantan then knocked Owen off the mountain, who quickly grabbed hold onto a protrusion on the side of the mountain. Kenobi escaped the net and stunned the Wookiee, sprinting over to Owen to grab him back up. However, Krrsantan intervened and threw an enormous bolder at Kenobi. Kenobi used his lightsaber to split the rock in two, also blinding Krrsantan in one eye during the process. The debris from the rock crashed into Owen's ledge and he nearly fell if not for Kenobi's use of the Force. Kenobi held Owen in place using the Force before losing focus as a result of Krrsantan's constant attacks. Owen fell, but was deftly saved by Luke, who used the repaired Skyhopper's turret to break Owen's fall. Kenobi then used this opportunity to disarm the Wookiee, who plunged off the side of the mountain. He did not die however, and escaped off-world to escape Jabba's wrath. Owen reunited with Luke at the foot of the mountain and held the boy in deep embrace. He casted a knowing glance up toward Kenobi who looked on in triumph.[116]
There were no words of thanks exchanged between Owen and Kenobi, but Kenobi was simply happy to see the family reunited. Kenobi then returned to his family, which was what he fondly called his herd of Banthas. Among them, he looked up into the sky to see Luke's Skyhopper, soaring off into the sunset.[116]
Encountering Maul
"Look what has become of you. A rat in the desert."
"Look what I've risen above."
―Maul and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
In 2 BBY, Maul arrived on Tatooine in search of Kenobi, following his vision of the twin suns. Unable to successfully trace him, Maul used a Sith holocron to lure Ezra Bridger there, hoping the young Jedi's pain would be enough to draw Kenobi out. Kenobi found Ezra unconscious in the Dune Sea and sheltered him from the storm. When Ezra regained consciousness, he alerted Obi-Wan of Maul's presence. Kenobi calmly replied that he knew of it all and that he didn't go into hiding unprepared. He told Ezra that it was Ezra's responsibility to help the Rebellion; not to handle Maul. That burden fell upon Kenobi himself.[117]

320 Twin Suns
Kenobi prepares to face Maul one last time.
Soon thereafter Maul arrived, seething with rage upon seeing his old rival after so many years. Kenobi sent Bridger off on a dewback toward Maul's ship, which Bridger would use to fly off-world back to Atollon. Maul mocked Kenobi's lackluster living conditions, and wondered out loud whether it would be more cruel to simply leave Kenobi to what Maul believed was a life of misery and squalor. But rather than responding with mockery in turn, as he might have in his younger years, Kenobi calmly and succinctly explained to Maul that the former Sith Lord in fact had even less, because he defined himself by his desires to kill, possess, and dominate. This infuriated Maul, who ignited one of the blades of his saberstaff and struck the ground in front of Kenobi's small campfire, showering it with sand and putting it out. Maul, still wishing to get a rise out of Kenobi, then speculated on his reasons for being on Tatooine and quickly drew the conclusion that Kenobi was there to protect someone. Stirred to action by the threat of Maul to Luke, Kenobi ignited his lightsaber and adopted his signature Form III stance. As Maul tightened his grip on his own saber and ignited his second blade, Kenobi shifted his stance into the one used by his old master Qui-Gon during the duel on Naboo in the Theed power generator.[117]

Maul dies but for real this time
Maul dies in Kenobi's arms.
Maul noted Kenobi's change in stance and attacked, crossing blades with Kenobi twice before attempting to hit him with the same hilt-strike that had allowed him to kill Qui-Gon. However, Kenobi had evidently anticipated this, and he struck down at Maul's hilt as Maul struck upwards, bisecting Maul's lightsaber and carving a lethal laceration into Maul's chest. The former Sith Lord collapsed to one knee, but Kenobi caught him before he could fall to the ground and held him. As Maul lay dying, he asked Kenobi whether the person whom he was protecting was the Chosen One; the one prophesied to destroy the Sith. Kenobi, at this point of the opinion that Vader would never turn from the dark side, replied that he was. Maul appeared to take some modicum of comfort from this knowledge, seemingly certain that he and Kenobi would be avenged for all the wrongs that the Sith had inflicted upon them. Kenobi then paid his last rites to Maul and traveled via dewback to the Lars' Homestead. Upon arriving there, he heard Beru Whitesun Lars calling to Luke and saw the teenager running back home against a binary sunset.[117]

Galactic Civil WarEdit
Coming out of exileEdit
"Obi-Wan Kenobi... Obi-Wan. Now that's a name I've not heard in a long time. A long time."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Luke Skywalker[src]
Ben Kenobi
"Ben" Kenobi during his last years in exile.
During the Galactic Civil War, Kenobi would come out of exile[4] when Senator Bail Organa, at the behest of Rebel leader Mon Mothma, would send for his help.[118] Unable to attend to it in person, Organa sent his daughter Princess Leia Organa to request Kenobi's help. Captured in a battle over Tatooine, Leia ordered R2-D2 on a crusade that risked the life of his new owner, Luke Skywalker. Kenobi appeared to chase away Tusken Raiders, who had attacked Skywalker, leaving him unconscious, and who had also scared R2-D2 off and damaged C-3PO.[4]

Coming to the aid of the boy, Kenobi saw the droid and told him not to worry, just as Skywalker woke up and Kenobi asked why he had traveled so far. Skywalker, then, told him of R2-D2's devotion to his apparent former master and asked the exiled Jedi if he knew who Obi-Wan Kenobi was. Reminiscing, Kenobi responded that indeed he knew who Obi-Wan was, and told the young Skywalker that it was, in fact, his real name. Hearing Tusken Raiders on the distance, Kenobi took Skywalker and his droids inside his home to avoid any more conflict with the raiders.[4]
Leias message
Kenobi watches Leia's message.
There, Kenobi told the young farmer that Luke's father, Anakin Skywalker, had fought in the Clone Wars as a Jedi Knight, just like him, and gave Skywalker his old apprentice's lightsaber. He told him that Darth Vader had killed his father and brought about the fall of the Republic, but also explained what the Force was, until R2-D2 showed him Organa's message, asking him to deliver the intel-carrying droid to her father, on Alderaan. Kenobi then asked Skywalker to join him on his trip to the planet, to learn the ways of the Force, but the young man refused, saying that he was needed back on the farm, and offered to take him to Anchorhead.[4]

Lukeandben
Kenobi taking Luke Skywalker as his apprentice.
On their way to the city, the two then discovered that stormtroopers were in the desert, looking for the two droids, and Skywalker headed back home despite Kenobi's warning not to. Kenobi, then, waited for Skywalker to come back and arranged a small funeral pyre for all the Jawas killed by the Empire's soldiers. When Skywalker returned, the young man agreed to go with him to Alderaan and be trained as a Jedi. Afterwards, the four went to Mos Eisley where they entered a cantina to search for a pilot.[4]

There, they found the Corellian smuggler Han Solo and his first mate, a Wookiee named Chewbacca, who owned and piloted the Millennium Falcon, a ship not only capable of outrunning Imperial vessels, but also one of the fastest ships in the galaxy. For 17,000 credits, the two agreed to take them to Alderaan; however, when stormtroopers attacked, they were forced to make a hasty exit and enter hyperspace to escape two Star Destroyers still on their tail.[4]
Got A Bad feeling
Kenobi, Skywalker, Chewbacca and Han Solo in the Millennium Falcon approaching the Death Star.
As they waited for the Falcon to arrive in Alderaan, Kenobi arranged an exercise for Skywalker so that he would learned how to sense through the Force and deflect blaster fire from a training remote, when the Jedi Master sensed a disturbance in the Force caused by the Disaster. Soon enough, the Falcon exited hyperspace, and they discovered that the planet had been destroyed and replaced by an asteroid field. As a TIE fighter approached them, Solo decided to shoot the small ship, but Skywalker noticed that the ship was coming from what, at first, seemed like a small moon—the Death Star. As the space station's tractor beam pulled them in, Kenobi told Solo not to resist, saying there were alternatives to fighting.[4]

Duel on the Death Star and deathEdit
"I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again at last. The circle is now complete. When I left you, I was but a learner. Now I am the Master."
"Only a master of evil, Darth."
"Your powers are weak, old man."
"You can't win, Darth. If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine."
"You should not have come back."
―Darth Vader and Obi-Wan Kenobi[src]
ObiWan-tractorbeam
Kenobi deactivates the tractor beam.
As the Millennium Falcon was forced to land on Bay 327, Solo prompted everyone to hide on the ship's sensor-proof smuggling compartments, with Kenobi hiding alongside the two droids, to trick the Imperials into thinking they had abandoned the ship. As the Imperial scouts got off the ship, Kenobi told Solo he would take care of the tractor beam; soon enough, with Skywalker and Solo disguised as stormtroopers, they took control of the hangar's control room, where Kenobi learned the location of a terminal that, should one cut its power, it would allow the ship to leave. He decided to go alone despite Skywalker's protest, to whom he told that his destiny laid in a different path than his own.[4]

As Skywalker, Solo and Chewbacca learned of Organa's presence on the station and set out to rescue her, Kenobi managed to disable the tractor beam; however, as he made his way to the Falcon, he encountered Vader and the two engaged in one final duel. During it, Vader noted that his age had made him weak, but Kenobi told his former apprentice that he wouldn't win because he would become more powerful than Vader could ever imagine, even if he managed to kill him.[4]
Vaderstrike
Kenobi is struck down by his former apprentice.
The two made their way to Bay 327 just as the team reunited to board the Falcon, only for Kenobi to see the young Skywalker and give Vader a mysteriously knowing smile. As he raised his blade in surrender and took a deep breath, Vader struck him down and his body disappeared, for he had become one with the Force. Unable to attend to the body of his master, Skywalker was forced to escape on the Falcon with everyone else.[4]

Post-mortemEdit
Communication with LukeEdit
"Remember... the Force will be with you. Always."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Luke Skywalker — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Kenobi's communion with Qui-Gon was successful as Kenobi did not vanish completely but became a Force spirit. Using his new-found abilities, he was able to guide Skywalker during the Battle of Yavin so that he could successfully destroy the Death Star with proton torpedoes.[4]

When Skywalker was about to confront Darth Vader in the weapons factory Alpha on the assault of Cymoon 1, Kenobi reached out to Skywalker through the Force and told him to run.[119]
Later, while Luke was stationed above Vrogas Vas, he was attacked by Vader and crash-landed near an abandoned Jedi Temple[120] he had read about in one of Kenobi's journals, however while searching for something to use in the temple, he was contacted by Kenobi's voice, which told him to abandon the place, as he did not believe Luke was ready. As Luke asked how he should get ready, he was attacked and captured by General Karbin's stormtroopers. When Vader entered the temple, Kenobi called out to him, stating the Luke was the Chosen One and once again expressed his regret for Vader's fall; Vader dismissed Kenobi's presence as a delusion.[121]
Three years later, Kenobi would reappear to Luke on the ice planet of Hoth, where he instructed Skywalker to go to the Dagobah system to seek out Kenobi's former master, Yoda, for further Jedi training. Furthermore, Kenobi would also be able to convince Yoda to train Skywalker, who thought Skywalker to be too old, impatient and reckless, as much as he had anger in him like his father once had. However, Kenobi reminded Yoda that he had been once similar to Luke, back when Yoda taught him.[12]
When Skywalker received a vision of his friends in trouble on the Cloud City of Bespin, Skywalker rushed to aid them. Kenobi warned him that he was at a crossroads and that his abilities were what the Emperor wanted; Kenobi didn't want to lose Skywalker to the Emperor the way he had lost Vader. He also told the Jedi apprentice that, if he was to face Darth Vader, he would do it alone as he couldn't interfere. Finally, Kenobi gave Skywalker some final advice in that he shouldn't give into hate for it led to the dark side. As Skywalker departed from Dagobah, Kenobi was worried that the Jedi may have lost their last hope, only for Yoda to remind him of Luke's sister, Leia Organa.[12]
Kenobi and Luke Chatting
Kenobi recounting to Luke about Anakin Skywalker's seduction to the Dark Side.
About a year later, he reappeared after the death of Yoda to explain why he did not tell Luke the truth about his father. Though Luke wanted to believe that there was still good in his father, echoing Padmé's belief from twenty-three years ago, Kenobi no longer held that belief. He told Luke that he must face his destiny by confronting Vader once again. When Luke asked the meaning of Yoda's final words, "there is another Skywalker", Kenobi confessed that Leia was Luke's sister, and that they had been hidden from each other to keep them both safe. He also warned Luke about the powers of the Emperor.[122]

JediGhosts-ROTJ
Anakin, Yoda, and Kenobi as Force spirits on Endor.
Following the climatic Battle of Endor, Kenobi appeared standing next to the spirits of Anakin Skywalker and Yoda as they watched Luke and the other rebels celebrate their momentous victory, although Luke was the only one able to see them.[122]

Communication with ReyEdit
"You will be tempted. But you can learn. The Force will be with you...The Dark Side...The Jedi..You will do it alone...Rey...These are your...first...steps...."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi to Rey[src]
30 years later, Obi-Wan's voice was heard by Rey during a vision she received upon touching the lightsaber that previously belonged to Luke Skywalker, and his father before him. Obi-Wan called out to Rey, telling her "these are your first steps".[123]

Personality and traitsEdit
"Who's the more foolish, the fool, or the fool who follows him?"
―Obi-Wan Kenobi — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
In his youth, the loyal and dedicated Obi-Wan Kenobi possessed a dry sense of humor and sarcastic wit. Yoda said that he sensed Qui-Gon Jinn's defiance in him,[10] and Jinn himself reflected upon Kenobi's considerable knowledge and potential; he also considered his Padawan a lot wiser than him, if somewhat headstrong.[10] Often seen wise beyond his years, his humble and soft-spoken demeanor belied his warrior prowess. Despite his numerous complaints during flight, he was also a skilled pilot. In many ways, he represented the strength of the old Jedi Order: steadfast, selfless, and modest. His later skill at resolving disputes without a single battle would earn him the sobriquet "The Negotiator", at least in the eyes of General Grievous.[8]

Over time, Kenobi lost some of his youthful audacity and assumed the role of a more cautious and conservative mentor to Anakin Skywalker, who was in many ways his opposite in personality. Kenobi carefully measured his actions in any situation, garnering him the aforementioned nom de guerre. Kenobi was also known to be an accomplished storyteller. While hiding in the Jundland Wastes in his later years, he appeared as a kindly and eccentric old hermit (or, in Owen Lars' words, "That wizard is just a crazy old man") to those not familiar with the ways of the Jedi. In his final days, Kenobi retained his traits of patience and foresight as well as gaining some of the boldness reminiscent of his youth.[10]
Kenobi often thought out plans and strategies rather than leaping into action. He would usually place his hand on his chin or stroke his beard as he thought. This was a common trait of the Jedi Master, one that his apprentice Anakin Skywalker did not practice very often.[35] He sometimes mentally repeated the Jedi Code to calm himself.[9]
Kenobi's respect for the lives of others led him to emerge from hiding to save Ezra Bridger and the C1-series astromech droid Chopper from succumbing to the deserts of Tatooine. Kenobi then reproved Ezra for succumbing to Maul's manipulation and counselled the young rebel to return to his place with the rebellion. Despite not hating Maul, Kenobi was prepared to fight and kill him in self defense. After mortally wounding Maul, Kenobi comforted the former Sith and assured him that he was watching over the Chosen One .[117]
Powers and abilitiesEdit
"Your powers are weak, old man."
"You can't win, Darth. If you strike me down, I shall become more powerful than you can possibly imagine."
―Darth Vader and Obi-Wan Kenobi — Gnome-speakernotesListen (file info)[src]
Though he had clear preferences for diplomacy, Kenobi was one of the greatest swordsmen and Force-users in Jedi history.

Lightsaber abilitiesEdit
Wiki-shrinkable This article is a stub. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
KenobiEpIIISaber-MR
Obi-wan Kenobi's third and last lightsaber.
Kenobi was a very capable lightsaber duelist, one of the greatest swordsmen of his time. Throughout his training years, he had learnt several forms of lightsaber combat, especially Form III[10][9]. In contrast to the aggressive dueling styles of his master, Qui-Gon Jinn, and his apprentice Anakin Skywalker, Kenobi's combat style was mainly defensive, though he would use aggressive attacks when pressed. He faced some of the most dangerous people in the galaxy, such as the deadly Sith Lord Darth Maul and infamous Jedi Hunter General Grievous, respectively, the latter of whom he fought on at least seven occasions. Though he lost to the cyborg in three of their encounters (the first, fifth and sixth), he was able to survive every time without any serious injury.

He was able to duel Grievous to a draw in their third and fourth encounters, and was able to overpower him in their second duel and ultimately killed him in the final round. However, it should be noted that Kenobi ultimately killed Grievous with a blaster rather than his lightsaber. Although Kenobi usually used only one lightsaber, he also seemed to have been well-versed in the art of Jar'Kai, which was perhaps most prominently displayed during his duel with Darth Maul and Savage Opress, in which he wielded both his own lightsaber and the lightsaber of the deceased Adi Gallia. His mastery of dual-blade combat allowed him to hold his own against both the Sith brothers and he even managed to break Opress's left knee and sever his left arm. The duel ultimately ended as a stalemate when Maul used his Force powers to briefly incapacitate Kenobi, giving the brothers time to escape.[86]
Earlier on, Kenobi had also momentarily, though somewhat less successfully used Jar'Kai against General Grievous and Cad Bane, respectively.[57] He was also capable of using his lightsaber to ground Force lightning, as he demonstrated against Dooku on Geonosis. Kenobi was also able to defeat his former apprentice Anakin Skywalker, now Darth Vader, in an epic duel on Mustafar. Making use of his staunch Form III defense throughout the fight, Obi-Wan was eventually able to exploit Vader's aggressive nature, dismembering the hate-filled Sith Lord when he recklessly jumped towards him.[8] He evidently improved upon his dueling capablities during his exile on Tatooine, as he managed to defeat his former nemesis Maul within seconds during their final encounter.[117]
By the time of his rematch with Vader on the first Death Star, he was still very formidable and was able to hold his own against Vader for a short period of time. Ultimately however, he was no match for Vader's cautious but relentless assault. Rather than continue the fight, he instead opted to sacrifice his physical form and become one with the Force. In doing this, he taught both of his Skywalker students one final lesson.[4]
Force powersEdit
"The Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together."
―Obi-Wan Kenobi, instructing Luke Skywalker[src]
Wiki-shrinkable This article is a stub. You can help Wookieepedia by expanding it.
Though Kenobi focused largely on lightsaber combat, he was also very skilled and powerful in use of the Force. He was trained in the use of the mind trick, making use of it whenever he wanted to avoid any physical confrontation.[11][39][4][14] He was also able to use the Force to tame, control, and lead a group of angry gutkurrs on Ryloth.[24] As befitted a Jedi, Kenobi was adept at concealing his feelings in the Force when he chose to.[9]

He was also capable of using telekinesis to push or levitate objects,[14], or to crush them, as seen when he destroyed two commando droids to recover his lightsaber after a difficult hand-to-hand fight with Darts D'Nar.[71] He would also use the Force to augment his natural leaping ability. His ability to use the Force push technique was exceptional, as he was able to use it to blast back General Grievous dozens of meters with a single push during their duel. A short time later, he was even able to hold off a Force blast from Anakin Skywalker during their duel, though after a short time the resulting telekinetic struggle launched both of them across a room.[8]
Prior to his exile on Tatooine, Yoda instructed him on how to communicate his late master, Qui-Gon Jinn, who was unable to visibly manifest as a spirit due to his incomplete training under the Force Priestesses.[8] Through Jinn, Kenobi eventually learned the ability to manifest his consciousness after death, a skill he would later put to good use to guide and counsel his apprentice, Luke Skywalker, during the Galactic Civil War.[4][119][12][122]
Other abilitiesEdit
Obi-Wan Kenobi proved himself to be a great military strategist and a highly studious man, demonstrating good knowledge on galactic history or conventions of war, like the Yavin Code[18]. He personally led his troops to many famous victories during the Clone Wars, and his persuasive demeanor earned him the moniker of "The Negotiator."[8]

Despite his dislike of flying, Kenobi was an excellent pilot. During the Clone Wars, he led many attacks from the cockpit of his Jedi starfighter or his Jedi interceptor, proving to be an outstanding pilot when navigating through an asteroid field in pursuit of Jango Fett's ship and evading his seismic charges unscathed.[11]
Kenobi was also a skilled hand-to-hand combatant, having developed enough level of skill in unarmed combat so as to compete with Pre Vizsla, leader of the Death Watch, in unarmed techniques, though he outclassed the Mandalorian in lightsaber technique.[54] During his duel with Jango Fett on Kamino, Kenobi was briefly deprived of his lightsaber, and fought the bounty hunter in unarmed combat.[11] Furthermore, while he preferred lightsabers, Kenobi was an excellent marksman, as demonstrated during his time as "Rako Hardeen" in Moralo Eval's Box.[76]
Though he admitted his skills were "rusty," Kenobi could read hand signals accurately enough to understand Eeth Koth's message to his location at the Saleucami system.[52]
He understood many languages, including Galactic Basic, Twi'leki,[24] Amani language,[103] Felucia's tribal language,[99] and Shyriiwook.[4]
Behind the scenesEdit
Obi-Wan Kenobi Episode 1 Concept Art
Early concept for young Obi-Wan Kenobi in The Phantom Menace
For A New Hope, Obi-Wan Kenobi was played by Sir Alec Guinness, who was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor (the only acting-related Academy Award nomination for any Star Wars film).[124] Guinness reprised the role as Kenobi's ghost in The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi. Alec was not very fond of the Star Wars universe, however, and thought that the series was "fairy-tale rubbish."[source?]

Obi-Wan Kenobi was played by Ewan McGregor in The Phantom Menace, Attack of the Clones, and Revenge of the Sith. James Arnold Taylor voiced Kenobi in the The Clone Wars film and TV series, as well as Star Wars Rebels. In The Force Awakens, Taylor returned to voice Kenobi in a brief scene during a Force vision, but the voiceover was later replaced instead with one from Ewan McGregor.[125] Guinness's voice was also used, with his line "Rey" extracted from audio of him saying "afraid."[126] In the Star Wars Rebels third season episode "Twin Suns", Kenobi was voiced by Stephen Stanton.[117]
In the non-canon series LEGO Star Wars: The Freemaker Adventures Season One episode, "Crossing Paths", Kenobi is voiced by Michael Donovan.[127] Kenobi would later make an appearance in a hologram in "Duel of Destiny".[128]
Despite great critical acclaim, Alec Guinness disliked being associated solely with the role of Kenobi.[source?] The idea to kill off Kenobi came from Marcia Lucas, after her husband complained he was unable to find a way to generate tension in the story.[129]
However, The Making of Star Wars: The Definitive Story Behind the Original Film stated that George Lucas originally came up with the idea of having Ben die, to which Guinness initially objected. By explaining that Ben would have little to do in the story after the Millennium Falcon escaped the Death Star, Lucas convinced him to allow it.
Ben Kenobi's observation of LukeEdit
The Korean Star Wars LINE Webtoon features a short story about Luke Skywalker's childhood. According to the comic, despite Lars' effort to prevent Luke from meeting Kenobi, Luke eventually met him when he became 12 years old. Skywalker went on an adventure with his friend Windy, riding a dewback, but they soon encountered a sandstorm and both lost consciousness. When Skywalker awoke, there was a krayt dragon nearby sneaking up on him. Just as the dragon attempted to attack, Kenobi appeared and beheaded the giant creature. When Skywalker asked who he was, Kenobi answered that his name was "Ben Kenobi" and revealed that he was an old friend of Skywalker's father.[130]

Kenobi took Skywalker and Windy back to their village, meeting Skywalker's uncle, Owen Lars. Lars thanked him for bringing Luke back safely but told him to stay back from the kid, because he didn't want to put Skywalker in danger. In return, Kenobi said he was observing Skywalker and claimed that the Force was strong in him, telling Lars that he would leave the farm one day. Lars responded that the Jedi were done since the Republic had fallen, warning him once again to never visit their homestead again.[130]

http://pokemon.wikia.com/wiki/Ash_Ketchum
sh Ketchum is the main protagonist of the Pokémon anime series who has always dreamed of becoming a Pokémon Master. As soon as he turned ten years old, he rushed to Professor Oak's Laboratory to get his first Pokémon. He is the first human character to be introduced in the series. Originally wanting to choose Squirtle, Ash ended up receiving the Pokémon Pikachu, as he arrived late leaving him with no other starters to choose from. He sets onto his adventure later in the day. He is currently also the only character shown to have been to all of the regions.

At first, Pikachu did not obey Ash and kept running away, so Ash had to tie him up. After getting chased by a flock of Spearow, Ash attempted to save Pikachu from them; seeing Ash so determined to help him, Pikachu protected Ash from the Spearow by electrocuting the entire flock, thanks to being struck by lightning at that exact moment, supercharging his Electric-type move. From then on, Pikachu and Ash became best friends for life. As an unskilled trainer, Ash started his adventure while meeting his friends Misty, Brock, and capturing new Pokémon.

Ash eventually defeated all the Gym Leaders in Kanto, allowing him to enter in the Pokémon League. Since then, he has continued to travel, journeying through the various regions, making new friends such as Tracey, May, Max, Dawn, Iris, Cilan, Clemont, Bonnie, and meeting his childhood friend Serena, challenging all the Gym Leaders, entering each region's Pokémon League, and catching new Pokémon while still following his goal of becoming a Pokémon Master. Since this goal is so close to his heart, he sometimes acts a bit rash and rushes to the next battle he can as fast as possible without thinking. Ash is currently traveling in the Alola region, with his new friends Lillie, Mallow, Lana, Sophocles and Kiawe. Ash's name in the Japanese version of the anime is Satoshi, likely after Satoshi Tajiri, the creator of Pokémon.

Contents[show]
Appearance
Ash wears a few outfits, as seen on the Pokémon anime, he also has black hair and brown eyes, and always wears a cap. Over the past regions he had different caps.

Original series
In the original series, Ash wears a white and blue short sleeved jacket with gold trim, white collar and sleeves, a dark teal T-shirt, blue jeans with light blue cuffs, black and white sneakers with red dots, green fingerless gloves with light green borders and a red and white cap with a green stylized "L".

Advanced Generation
In the Advanced Generations series, Ash appeared with new clothing - a black and red cap with a green Poké Ball on it and wears a blue sleeveless hoodie with gold trim and a white hood, a black short sleeve undershirt with a red stripe, black fingerless gloves with light green borders, light blue jeans with knee stitchings, and blue sneakers.

Diamond & Pearl
In the Diamond & Pearl series, Ash appeared with another new outfit, consisting of a black vest with a white collar and yellow stripe, a white short sleeve undershirt, blue cargo jeans, black and red sneakers, and his hat's Poké Ball is blue.

Best Wishes!
In the Best Wishes series, Ash appeared with a new outfit, new hat and new sneakers, wears a red and white hat with a blue Poké Ball, wears a blue and white hooded jacket with a golden zipper, black baggy jeans, black fingerless gloves with red borders and his red high top sneakers.

XY
In the XY series, Ash wears yet another new outfit, consisting of a blue collared shirt with short sleeves and white trim, black undershirt darker blue jeans, a red and white hat, and red high top sneakers.

Sun & Moon
In the Sun & Moon series, Ash wears a new outfit different from his previous outfits. He wears a white and blue striped short sleeved loose shirt, brown capris with red outlines with baggy pockets and red folded sleeves at the edge of his capris and shades of blue sneakers. His hat is red, dark blue and gray and the Poké Ball design is white and wears a Z-Ring on his left wrist.

Personality
Ash is very determined to be a good Pokémon trainer as seen in every episode. He shows a lot of sympathy towards Pokémon, usually helping and befriending Pokémon he meets on his long journey. He doesn't like trainers who mistreat Pokémon such as Damian, J, and Shamus. He is a role model to many people such as May, Dawn, N, and Serena. Ash never changes his strategy of all-out attacking and using various Moves to defeat other Pokémon. Ash is generally kind, compassionate, and brave, but can be stubborn, short-tempered, impatient, cocky, reckless, and impulsive at times.

Since entering the Kalos region, Ash has demonstrated much greater maturity and level-headiness; both in and out of battles as he continues his journey to be a Pokémon Master. So far, the only Pokémon League he has won is the Orange League in the Orange Archipelago. Since entering the Alola region, Ash is shown to be far more enthusiastic than he did in the Kalos region, while at the same time kept his determination and his love for Pokémon.

Skills
Ash has shown be quite athletic, he can run, swing on vines, carry some heavy stuff, swim and is very good climber, shown in the shows many times also it was shown in Pokémon 4Ever and in Lucario and the Mystery of Mew. Ash can take on a Pokémon attacks for a long period's of time without taking to much damage depending on the attack. Ash has grown to be an amazing battler also he has some performing skills, due to competing in some Pokémon contests also from watching May and Dawn, and he's good at fishing.

Ash has the ability to sense and control aura, as it was shown in Lucario and the Mystery of Mew and once again in the Diamond and Pearl episodes, "Pokémon Ranger and the Kidnapped Riolu! Part 1" and "Pokémon Ranger and the Kidnapped Riolu! Part 2". Aaron's Lucario has stated that Ash's aura is the same as Aaron's, and Ash was able to use his aura to find and save Riolu. Ash only used his aura abilities when it has something to do with either Riolu or Lucario. He has the ability to use Bond Phenomenon, shown in the XYZ series, with one of his Pokémon (Greninja).

Biography
Anime
Pre-series
XY006 17
Ash helping Serena.
When Ash Ketchum was a little boy, Ash went on a field trip. However, during the trip, it started to rain, and Ash got separated from his group. Ash was forced to take shelter under a hollow tree. However, he noticed a group of Pokémon who were also seeking shelter from the rain. He invited them inside the tree and the Pokémon kept him safe and warm. This experience is what inspired Ash into becoming a Pokémon trainer.

He then enrolled in Professor Oak's Pokémon Summer Camp where he would learn about the basics of Pokémon and being a trainer when he gets older. While looking for a Poliwag, Ash happened upon a young girl and fellow camper named Serena who got lost in the forest while looking for her group. She'd fallen and injured her knee after Poliwag startled her. He wrapped a clean, blue handkerchief with a Poké Ball on each corner around her wounded knee to brace it. But she couldn't get herself up due to the pain, so Ash lent her his hand and helped her stand up. While doing so, he even hugged her. Then he guided her out of the forest and took her back to the campsite.

At some point before starting their journeys, Ash was friends with Gary Oak, Professor Oak's grandson, until they both fished out a Poké Ball on both their lines. After arguing about who keeps it, they broke it in two, each keeping one half as a reminder of that day.

Original series
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Original series (Kanto and Orange Islands)
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Original series (Johto)
Advanced Generation
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Advanced Generation
Diamond & Pearl
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Diamond & Pearl
Best Wishes!
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Best Wishes!
XY
Main article: Ash Ketchum/XY
Sun & Moon
Main article: Ash Ketchum/Sun & Moon
Manga
The Electric Tale of Pikachu
Main article: Ash Ketchum (ETP)
Ash & Pikachu
Main article: Ash Ketchum (A&P)
Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl
Main article: Ash Ketchum (D&P)
Magical Pokémon Journey
Main article: Ash Ketchum (MPJ)
Pokémon
On hand
Ash Pikachu
Pikachu ♂

Ash Rowlet
Rowlet

Ash Lycanroc
Rockruff → Lycanroc

Ash Litten
Litten

Traveling with
Rotom Pokédex anime
Rotom Pokédex

With Professor Oak
Ash Bulbasaur
Bulbasaur

Ash&#039;s Charizard
Charmander → Charmeleon → Charizard

Ash Kingler
Krabby → Kingler

Ash Muk
Muk

Ash Tauros
Tauros (30) ♂

Ash Snorlax
Snorlax

Ash Heracross
Heracross

Ash Bayleef
Chikorita → Bayleef ♀

Ash Quilava
Cyndaquil → Quilava

Ash Totodile
Totodile ♂

Ash Noctowl
Noctowl

Ash Donphan
Egg → Phanpy → Donphan

Ash Swellow
Taillow → Swellow

Ash Sceptile
Treecko → Grovyle → Sceptile

Ash Corphish
Corphish

Ash Torkoal
Torkoal

Ash Glalie
Snorunt → Glalie

Ash Staraptor
Starly → Staravia → Staraptor ♂

Ash Torterra
Turtwig → Grotle → Torterra

Ash Infernape
Chimchar → Monferno → Infernape

Ash Buizel
Buizel ♂

Ash Gliscor
Gligar → Gliscor

Ash Gible
Gible ♂

Ash Unfezant
Pidove → Tranquill → Unfezant ♀

Ash Oshawott
Oshawott ♂

Ash Pignite
Tepig → Pignite ♂

Ash Snivy
Snivy ♀

Ash Scraggy
Egg → Scraggy ♂

Ash Leavanny
Sewaddle → Swadloon → Leavanny ♂

Ash Palpitoad
Palpitoad ♂

Ash Boldore
Roggenrola → Boldore

Ash Krookodile
Sandile → Krokorok → Krookodile ♂

Ash Talonflame
Fletchling → Fletchinder → Talonflame

Ash Hawlucha
Hawlucha ♂

Ash Noivern
Egg → Noibat → Noivern ♂

Released
Ash Butterfree
Caterpie → Metapod → Butterfree ♂

Ash Pidgeot
Pidgeotto → Pidgeot

Ash Lapras
Lapras

Ash Seaking
Seaking

Ash Greninja
Froakie → Frogadier → Greninja ↔ Ash-Greninja

Traded away
Gentleman Raticate
Raticate

Dawn Aipom
Aipom ♀

Given away
Casey Beedrill
Beedrill

With someone else
Ash Squirtle
Squirtle

Ash Primeape
Primeape

Ash Goodra
Goomy → Sliggoo → Goodra

Temporary
Nurse Joy Pidgey
Pidgey

Nurse Joy Rattata
Rattata

Lara Rapidash
Ponyta → Rapidash

Dr Akihabara Porygon
Porygon

PLEEI Weezing
Weezing

PLEEI Arbok
Arbok

PLEEI Meowth
Meowth

Hagatha Hoothoot
Hoothoot

Misty Staryu anime
Staryu

Misty Psyduck anime
Psyduck

Arcky
Arcky

Officer Jenny Pidgeot
Pidgeot

Flygon M06
Flygon

Brock Lombre
Lombre

Brock Mudkip
Mudkip

Master Hamm Hitmonlee
Hitmonlee ♂

Dawn Pachirisu
Pachirisu

Dawn Piplup
Piplup ♂

Brock Sudowoodo
Sudowoodo ♂

Riolu (anime)
Riolu

Summer Academy Raichu
Raichu ♂

Summer Academy Spoink
Spoink

Summer Academy Mantyke
Mantyke

Dawn Buneary
Buneary ♀

Brock Happiny
Happiny ♀

Luxio anime
Luxio ♂

Ash Venipede
Venipede

Cottonee BW031
Cottonee ♂

Cobalion M15
Cobalion

Butterfree BW132
Caterpie → Metapod → Butterfree

Rhyhorn XY007
Rhyhorn

Vivillon XY012
Scatterbug → Spewpa → Vivillon

Ash Skiddo
Skiddo

Blue Flower Florges anime
Florges ♀

Serena Pancham
Pancham ♂

Clemont Luxray
Luxray ♂

Latias MS018
Latias ↔ Mega Latias ♀

Latios MS018
Latios ↔ Mega Latios ♂

Rayquaza MS018
Rayquaza ↔ Mega Rayquaza

Ash and Serena Mamoswine XY083
Mamoswine

Litleo XY097
Litleo

Sophocles&#039; Charjabug
Charjabug

Lillie Vulpix
Snowy

Ride Pokémon
Poké Ride Sharpedo
Sharpedo

Poké Ride Tauros
Tauros ♂*

Poké Ride Lapras
Lapras *

Poké Ride Pelipper
Pelipper

Befriended
Sabrina Haunter
Haunter

Mewtwo M01
Mewtwo

Lugia M02
Lugia

Houndour JE034
Houndour

Celebi M04
Celebi

Latias M05
Latias ♀

Ash Larvitar
Egg → Larvitar

Lucario M08
Lucario ♂

Mew M08
Mew

Shaymin M11 Land Forme
Shaymin

Giratina Altered Forme anime
Giratina

Arceus M12
Arceus

Azelf anime
Azelf

Zorua M13
Zorua ♂

Zoroark M13
Zoroark ♀

Victini MS014
Victini

Reshiram M14
Reshiram

Zekrom M14
Zekrom

Meloetta Aria Forme anime
Meloetta

Keldeo M15
Keldeo

Sableye M16
Sableye

Douse Drive Genesect
Genesect (Douse Drive)

Skrelp XY024
Skrelp

Diancie anime
Diancie ♀

Hoopa anime
Hoopa

Volcanion MS019
Volcanion

Magearna M19
Magearna ♀

Achievements
Badges
Kanto League
Kanto Badges
Ash's Kanto Badges
Boulder Badge
Cascade Badge
Thunder Badge
Marsh Badge
Rainbow Badge
Soul Badge
Volcano Badge
Earth Badge
Orange Islands
Orange League Badges
Ash's Orange Island Badges
Coral-Eye Badge
Sea Ruby Badge
Spike Shell Badge
Jade Star Badge
Johto League
Johto Badges
Ash's Johto Badges
Zephyr Badge
Hive Badge
Plain Badge
Fog Badge
Storm Badge
Mineral Badge
Glacier Badge
Rising Badge
Hoenn League
Hoenn Badges
Ash's Hoenn Badges
Stone Badge
Knuckle Badge
Dynamo Badge
Heat Badge
Balance Badge
Feather Badge
Mind Badge
Rain Badge
Sinnoh League
Sinnoh Badges
Ash's Sinnoh Badges
Coal Badge
Forest Badge
Cobble Badge
Fen Badge
Relic Badge
Mine Badge
Icicle Badge
Beacon Badge
Unova League
Ash&#039;s Up to date Unova Gym Badges
Ash's Unova Badges (The Toxic Badge replaces the Legend Badge)
Trio Badge
Basic Badge
Insect Badge
Bolt Badge
Quake Badge
Jet Badge
Freeze Badge
Toxic Badge
Kalos League
All of Ash&#039;s Kalos Badges
Ash's Kalos Badges
Bug Badge
Cliff Badge
Rumble Badge
Plant Badge
Voltage Badge
Fairy Badge
Psychic Badge
Iceberg Badge
Symbols
Hoenn Battle Frontier
Frontier Symbols
Ash's Frontier Symbols
Knowledge Symbol
Guts Symbol
Tactics Symbol
Luck Symbol
Spirit Symbol
Ability Symbol
Brave Symbol
Alola Island Challenges
Verdant Cavern Trial (Normalium Z)
Melemele Island Grand Trial (Electrium Z)
Brooklet Hill Trial (assisted Lana; did not receive Z-Crystal)
Lush Jungle Trial (Grassium Z)
Akala Island Grand Trial (Rockium Z)
Pokémon League Status
Indigo Plateau Conference (Indigo League) Loses to Ritchie: Top 16
Silver Conference (Johto League) Loses to Harrison: Top 8
Ever Grande Conference (Hoenn League) Loses to Tyson: Top 8
Lily of the Valley Conference (Sinnoh League) Loses to Tobias: Top 4
Vertress Conference (Unova League) Loses to Cameron: Top 8
Lumiose Conference (Kalos League) Loses to Alain: Runner-Up
Pokémon Championship Battles
Orange League: Champion
Hoenn Battle Frontier: Champion
Tournaments
Bug-Catching Contest: Champion
Extreme Pokémon race: Champion
Big P Pokémon race: Champion
P1 Grand Prix: Champion
Pokémon balloon race: Champion
Pokémon Contests
Jubilife City Pokémon Contest: Quarter-Finals
Terracotta Town Pokémon Contest (unofficial): (Winner - Tied with May)
Wallace Cup: Quarter-Finals
Hearthome City Tag Battle Competition: Champion-with Paul
Hearthome Collection Contest: Runner-up
Pokémon Summer Academy Triathlon: Winner
Pokémon Swap Meet Tauros-Battling competition: Champion
Fire and Rescue Grand Prix - Unknown
Grass tournament: Runner-up
Pokémon Orienteering: Unknown
Pokémon Dress-Up contest: Runner-up
Tour de Alto Mare: Unknown
Whirl Cup: Top 32
Seaking Catching Day - Unknown
Hoenn PokéRinger - Crossgate Town: Champion
Sinnoh PokéRinger - Squallville: Champion
Rota tournament: Champion
Sumo conference: Champion
Twinleaf Festival Battle tournament: Champion
Sinnoh Pokéathlon Tournament: Runner-Up
Pokémon ping-pong tournament: Top 32
Club Battle: Runner-up
Wishing Bell Festival Contest: Runner-up
Clubsplosion: Runner-up
Pokémon World Tournament Junior Cup: Runner-up
Marine Cup tournament: Winner
Scalchop King competition: Disqualified due to Oshawott's shell being broken
Grand Harvest Festival Pokémon Sumo tournament: Winner
Rhyhorn Race: No Winner
Pokémon Summer Camp: Winner (along with Clemont, Bonnie, and Serena)
Pokémon Sky Relay: Runner-up
Pokémon Pancake Race: Runner-up
Other achievements
Honor of Kalos medal
Voice actors and actresses
English: Veronica Taylor (Seasons 1 - 8, Movies 1 - 8, A Sneak Peek at Pokémon, Mewtwo Returns) (4Kids)
Sarah Natochenny (Season 9 - present, Movie 9 - present) (PUSA/DuArt)
Kayzie Rogers (The Mastermind of Mirage Pokémon first dub only)
Japanese: Rica Matsumoto
German: Caroline Combrinck (1st-3rd Season & 12th- ), Veronika Neugebauer (4th-11th Season, dec.)
Italian: Davide Garbolino
Icelandic: Grímur Gíslason
Greek: Voula Kosta
Dutch: Christa Lips (Season 1 - present)
Arabic: Bouthayna Shaya (Season 1 & 2)
Filipino: Klariz Magboo (All Seasons)
Brazilian Portuguese: Fábio Lucindo (Season 1-18) Charles Emmanuel (Season 19-present)
Latin America: Gabriel Ramos (EP001-DP090) Irwin Daayán (DP091-DP104) Gabriel Ramos (DP105-DP157) Rommy Mendoza (young, DP138), Miguel Ángel Leal (DP158-present), Pablo Gandolfo (movies 6 and 7), Alan Fernando Velázquez (movie 12)
Danish: Mathias Klenske
European Spanish: Adolfo Moreno (all seasons), Rafael Alonso Naranjo Jr. (Pokémon 3 and Mewtwo Returns)
French: Aurelien-Ringelheim and Sebastien Redin
Hindi: Prasad Barve (Cartoon Network dub) and Nachiket Dighe (Hungama dub)
Origin
Design
Ash's design is based on the player character from Generation I, Red.

Etymology
Ash's Japanese name, Satoshi, comes from Satoshi Tajiri, the creator of Pokémon. Ash may be a shortening of Satoshi and his last name, Ketchum, comes from the phrase "Gotta catch 'em all".[1]

Trivia
Ash is the only human character to appear in every episode and season.
Ash has 49 Pokémon including different evolutionary forms (78 if all Tauros are included).
Ash has caught at least one of the Starter Pokémon in every region, and has caught the main bird Pokémon that appears in that region's Pokédex.
With the exception of the Orange Islands League and the Battle Frontier, Ash has never won a league tournament.
Ash is the only known trainer to have ever defeated Tobias' Darkrai.
In the Kanto region, Ash often turned his cap backwards when preparing for a battle or to capture a Pokémon. This habit wore off as time went on. However he was shown turning his cap backwards when he was battling Tobias, presumably because Tobias was arguably the strongest trainer he'd ever faced, being the only one who was capable of beating all six of his Pokémon using only two of his own. Although in the Best Wishes series, Ash is seen turning his cap backwards more often. He recently turned his hat around in A Battle of Aerial Mobility! when he used Froakie to help defeat and capture Fletching.
Ash hat back wards 13th season
Ash wearing his cap backwards in the 13th season, the first time in many seasons.
Ash has seen every legendary Pokémon from Kanto to Kalos.
In Tekken 6, there is a female character named Eleonore "Leo" Kliesen, who can be customized to look like Ash Ketchum. Coincidentally, both characters were voiced by Veronica Taylor and sounded very similar. However, in Tekken Tag Tournament 2 and onwards, Leo's voice grunts are used in later games where it was performed by Veronica Taylor and Leo is now voiced by a German voice actor to speak in her native German language.
Almost every character in the Pokémon anime are featured in the games, such as Misty (who even appeared as a trophy in Super Smash Bros. Melee), Brock (who appeared in Pokémon Red/Blue version), and Lyra (from Diamond & Pearl), as a Trainer♀ in Pokémon HeartGold/SoulSilver version and Gary, who appeared as main rival in Pokémon Red/Blue version default named as Blue. However, the only game Ash has ever appeared was in Pokémon Puzzle League for the Nintendo 64.
According to Climbing the Walls!, Ash's favorite move is Thunderbolt, mostly since this is his Pikachu's most notable move throughout the entire series.
Out of all the Pokémon Ash has ever had, his Pikachu is currently the only Electric-type that he's ever had.
Ash was Veronica Taylor's favorite role to voice in her career.
In the French dub, his name was changed to Sacha for unknown reasons.
Aside from the Orange Islands, Johto, second tour through Kanto and Sinnoh in the beginning, Ash sends all his Pokémon to Professor Oak when he goes to a new region.
This is because according to Gotta Catch Ya Later! Ash wanted to start off a new journey with only his Pikachu because he wanted to have the feeling of leaving Pallet Town for the first time, as he did in Pokémon - I Choose You!
Ash's name is based on one of the three options for one's name in Red/Blue/Yellow.
So far, Ash didn't officially catch a Pokémon of the Steel, Psychic, Ghost, or Fairy-types, a genderless Pokémon, a Legendary or a Mythical Pokémon.
Ash has, as of yet, not Mega Evolved any of his Pokémon that are capable of doing so.
Ash has been held captive and use as a hostage for almost every villainous organizations in each Region he's been to.
Team Rocket have taken Ash captive in almost every Region he's been to so he wouldn't get in their way. Sometimes, he was captured with his own Pokémon or others that weren't his so he would't get in their way. Team Rocket only used Ash as a hostage for a Pokémon one time so far.
Team Magma had Ash held captive because Pikachu had something they wanted while making sure he wouldn't get in their way.
Team Galactic has hold Ash captive so he wouldn't get in their way and as a hostage for a Pokémon.
Team Flare did take Ash captive as they wanted to use one of the abilities he poses for their plans (Bond Phenomenon). Also, they are the first villainous organization to do so.
Team Aqua and Team Plasma are the only villainous organizations by far not to have Ash held captive or as a hostage for any reason.

http://pokemon.wikia.com/wiki/Pikachu
Pikachu (ピカチュウ Pikachuu) is an Electric-type Pokémon, which was introduced in Generation I. Pikachu is renowned for being the most well-known and recognizable Pokémon. Over the years, Pikachu has become so popular that it serves as the Pokémon franchise mascot. It is the Version Mascot for the game Pokémon Yellow. It is also well known from the anime, where Ash Ketchum, the protagonist, owns a Pikachu. It evolves from Pichu when leveled up with high friendship and evolves into Raichu when exposed to a Thunder Stone. When in Alola, it evolves into its Alolan Forme.

Contents[show]
Biology
Physiology
Pikachu are small, chubby, and incredibly cute mouse-like Pokémon. They are almost completely covered by yellow fur. They have long yellow ears that are tipped with black. A Pikachu's back has two brown stripes, and its large tail is notable for being shaped like a lightning bolt. On its cheeks are two circle-shaped red pouches used for storing electricity. They turn yellow and spark with electricity when its about to use an Electric attack, such as Thunderbolt. It has also been known to generate small surges of electrical energy in anger or for protection, like in the anime.

A female Pikachu looks almost exactly the same as a male, with the exception of her tail, which is rounded at the end and has an inward dent, giving it the appearance of a heart. However, in earlier anime episodes, and in the games prior to Generation IV, female and male Pikachus look identical.

When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity can cause lightening storms.

Behavior
Pikachu are usually friendly creatures that love to be cuddled. They love having their tails rubbed, especially at the base; they also like being stroked. However, if threatened or angered, this Pokémon can be quite aggressive. If someone pulls its tail, it is most likely it will bite or shock anyone in the area.

Special Abilities
Pikachu's special ability is Static, which can cause paralysis in battle if hit by a physical move. In Pokémon Black and White's Dream World, the Trainer receives a Pikachu with the Lightningrod ability.

Pikachu are capable of learning Volt Tackle, a powerful Electric-type physical move exclusive to the Pikachu family of Pokémon.

Z-Moves
Pikachu is one of the few Pokémon in Sun and Moon which have a special Z-Move dedicated to them.

The Z-Move Catastropika is Pikachu's signature move. The move is activated by the Z-Crystal Pikanium Z. Its base is Volt Tackle. Catastropika can be learnt only by a Pikachu with Volt Tackle, and becomes unusable if Volt Tackle is forgotten or if the Pikachu evolves into Raichu.

Pikachu, being an Electric type, is capable of using the Z-Crystal Electrium Z to use Z Moves.

Evolution
Pikachu evolves into a Raichu by using a Thunder Stone. It evolves from Pichu when its happiness is maxed with the trainer in game.

Game Locations
Locations
Version(s)	Area(s)	Rarity
Red/Blue	Viridian Forest, Power Plant	Uncommon
Yellow	Starter Pokémon, Trade	One
Gold/Silver	Route 2	Common
Crystal	Route 2	Rare
Ruby/Sapphire	Safari Zone	Rare
Emerald	Safari Zone	Rare
FireRed/LeafGreen	Viridian Forest (uncommon if chosen Charmander), Power Plant	Rare
Diamond/Pearl	Trophy Garden	Common
Platinum	Trophy Garden	Common
HeartGold/SoulSilver	Route 2, Viridian Forest	Common
Black/White	Poké Transfer, Dream World	None
X/Y	Santalune Forest, Route 3	Rare
OR/AS	Safari Zone or by winning your first Contest	Uncommon/One

Pokédex entries
Pokédex Entries
Red
Blue
When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms.
Yellow
It keeps its tail raised to monitor its surroundings. If you yank its tail, it will try to bite you.
Gold
This intelligent Pokémon roasts hard berries with electricity to make them tender enough to eat.
Silver
It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose.
Crystal
When it is angered, it immediately discharges the energy stored in the pouches in its cheeks.
Ruby
Whenever Pikachu comes across something new, it blasts it with a jolt of electricity. If you come across a blackened berry, it's evidence that this Pokémon mistook the intensity of its charge.
Sapphire
This Pokémon has electricity-storing pouches on its cheeks. These appear to become electrically charged during the night while Pikachu sleeps. It occasionally discharges electricity when it is dozy after waking up.
Emerald
It stores electricity in the electric sacs on its cheeks. When it releases pent-up energy in a burst, the electric power is equal to a lightning bolt.
FireRed
It has small electric sacs on both its cheeks. If threatened, it looses electric charges from the sacs.
LeafGreen
When several of these Pokémon gather, their electricity could build and cause lightning storms.
Diamond
It lives in forests with others. It stores electricity in the pouches on its cheeks.
Pearl
If it looses crackling power from the electrical pouches on its cheeks, it is being wary.
Platinum
Pikachu can differentiate between the electricity from the shock of a weakened companion as well as a healthy one.
HeartGold
This intelligent Pokémon roasts hard berries with electricity to make them tender enough to eat.
SoulSilver
It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose.
Black
It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow Pikachu that is in a weakened state.
White
It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow Pikachu that is in a weakened state.
Black 2
It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow Pikachu that is in a weakened state.
White 2
It occasionally uses an electric shock to recharge a fellow Pikachu that is in a weakened state.
X
It raises its tail to check its surroundings. The tail is sometimes struck by lightning in this pose.
Y
It has small electric sacs on both its cheeks. If threatened, it looses electric charges from the sacs.
Omega Ruby
Whenever Pikachu comes across something new, it blasts it with a jolt of electricity. If you come across a blackened berry, it's evidence that this Pokémon mistook the intensity of its charge.
Alpha Sapphire
This Pokémon has electricity-storing pouches on its cheeks. These appear to become electrically charged during the night while Pikachu sleeps. It occasionally discharges electricity when it is dozy after waking up.
Sun
A plan was recently announced to gather many Pikachu and make an electric power plant.
Moon
It's in its nature to store electricity. It feels stressed now and then if it's unable to fully discharge the electricity.

https://bulbapedia.bulbagarden.net/wiki/Ash%27s_Pikachu
Ash's Pikachu (Japanese: サトシのピカチュウ Satoshi's Pikachu) is the signature Pokémon of the anime series, and the first Pokémon that Ash obtained on his journey as a Pokémon Trainer, given to Ash by Professor Oak.
Contents [hide]
1	History
1.1	Original series
1.1.1	Kanto
1.1.2	Orange Archipelago
1.1.3	Johto
1.2	Advanced Generation series
1.2.1	Hoenn
1.2.2	Kanto Battle Frontier
1.3	Diamond & Pearl series
1.4	Best Wishes series
1.4.1	Unova
1.4.2	Decolore Islands
1.5	XY series
1.6	Sun & Moon series
2	Personality and characteristics
2.1	Pikachu's imitations
2.2	Pikachu's language
3	Moves used
3.1	Z-Moves used
3.2	Moves improvised
4	Voice actors
5	In the games
5.1	Event distributions
5.1.1	Diamond & Pearl Ash's Pikachu
5.1.2	Pokémon Center Best Wishes Ash's Pikachu
5.1.3	7-Eleven Ash's Pikachu
5.1.4	Pokémon Center Ash's Pikachu
5.1.5	Pikachu in a cap
5.1.5.1	Original Cap
5.1.5.2	Hoenn Cap
5.1.5.3	Sinnoh Cap
5.1.5.4	Unova Cap
5.1.5.5	Kalos Cap
5.1.5.6	Alola Cap
6	In the manga
6.1	In the Ash & Pikachu manga
6.1.1	Moves used
6.2	In The Electric Tale of Pikachu manga
6.3	In the Magical Pokémon Journey manga
6.4	In the Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl manga
6.4.1	Moves used
6.5	In the movie adaptations
6.5.1	Moves used
6.5.1.1	Manga versions
6.5.1.1.1	Z-Moves used
6.5.1.2	Ani-Manga versions
7	In the TCG
8	In Tretta
9	Trivia
10	Related articles
11	References
History

129Magikarp.png	This section does not yet meet the quality standards of Bulbapedia. Please feel free to edit this section to make it conform to Bulbapedia norms and conventions.
Original series
Kanto

Pikachu's debut appearance
In the first episode of the Pokémon anime, Pokémon - I Choose You!, Ash woke up late the day he was supposed to go to Professor Oak's Laboratory to obtain his first Pokémon. When he arrived at the lab, the three available starter Pokémon, Bulbasaur, Charmander, and Squirtle, had already been taken by other Trainers who had arrived on time. Seeing Ash's disappointment, Professor Oak gave him Pikachu, who, at first, did not care at all for his new Trainer, constantly zapping him and anyone else nearby. He refused to go into his Poké Ball, and when Ash failed to catch a Pidgey, he laughed at him. However, by the end of the episode, Ash gained Pikachu's trust by protecting him from an attack by a flock of Spearow. Seeing this act of selflessness, Pikachu defended Ash from the Spearow as well and the two of them became inseparable friends, a moment that was capitalized on by catching a glimpse of an unknown Pokémon flying by. Ash then rushed to Viridian City in order to get Pikachu hospitalized quickly, as he had been badly injured during the fight.

Ash and Pikachu meeting for the first time
In Pokémon Emergency!, Ash managed to get to the Viridian City Pokémon Center just in time with the help of Officer Jenny, who scolded Ash for "mistreating" Pikachu. Nurse Joy agreed to heal Pikachu, and thanks to her, Pikachu managed to regain his health. At the end of the episode, Pikachu had regained enough of his strength to send Team Rocket blasting off for the very first time.
Pikachu participated in Ash's first Gym battle with Brock in Showdown in Pewter City. He faced Onix, but his Electric-type attacks were ineffective. Onix then started binding Pikachu. Seeing no other option, Ash forfeited. Ash and Pikachu later trained with Flint in order to increase the strength of Pikachu's Electric-type moves. Ash later challenged Brock to a rematch, where Pikachu managed to defeat Brock's Geodude thanks to his training. Pikachu then faced Onix again. Onix was able to Bind Pikachu once again, but this time Pikachu's Electric-type attacks dealt quite some damage. However, despite their training, Pikachu was still unable to defeat Onix, who was tightening its grip on Pikachu. As Ash was about to forfeit again, Pikachu's Thunderbolt managed to turn on the gym's sprinkler system, severely harming Onix. As Ash was about let Pikachu finish Onix off, he was stopped by Brock's siblings and he decided to forfeit again. Despite Ash forfeiting the match, Brock still gave him the Boulder Badge.

Ash rushing Pikachu to the Pokémon Center
Pikachu's next major battle was in Ash's Vermilion Gym battle against Lt. Surge's Raichu in Electric Shock Showdown. Lt. Surge laughed at Ash for attempting to defeat his Raichu with its pre-evolved form, angering Ash and Pikachu. Pikachu started off using Thunder Shock which seemed to do nothing to Raichu. Raichu then used its own Thunder Shock, which was much more powerful than Pikachu's attack, and dealt much damage. Following advice from Brock, Ash tried recalling Pikachu and forfeit. Pikachu, however, was determined to defeat Raichu and kept fighting. While trying to attack, Pikachu got overwhelmed by Raichu's Mega Punch and Mega Kick and was finally defeated by a powerful Thunderbolt. Due to all the damage he had taken during the battle, Pikachu had to be hospitalized. Later in the episode, Ash offered to let Pikachu evolve into a Raichu with a Thunder Stone that Nurse Joy had given him. However, Pikachu refused, wanting to defeat Raichu on his own terms.
Later, Ash challenged Lt. Surge for a rematch, where Pikachu once again faced Raichu. Trying to get close, Pikachu got smacked to the ground by Raichu's tail, followed up by repeating hits from its tail. Raichu then hit him hard with Body Slam. As Raichu was about to finish him off with another Body Slam, Pikachu managed to get up and dodge it. Ash soon found out that since Raichu was evolved so early, it did not learn any of the moves that it could only learn as a Pikachu, such as Agility and Quick Attack. Through his use of these moves, Pikachu managed to gain the upper hand and dodge Raichu's attacks. Raichu responded with an extremely powerful Thunderbolt attack that Lt. Surge was sure could defeat Pikachu. Pikachu, however, used his tail as an anchor to absorb the shock. Raichu tried using Thunderbolt again but due to its previous attack it had run out of electricity. It then tried to hit Pikachu with a Take Down, but was outsped by Pikachu's Quick Attack. Pikachu then used his tail to slam Raichu and defeat it, earning Ash the Thunder Badge.
In Abra and the Psychic Showdown, Pikachu was sent out to battle against Sabrina's Abra during Ash's Saffron Gym battle. It proved to be a tough foe, using Teleport to avoid Pikachu's Thunder Shock. Abra then suddenly evolved into Kadabra, making it much stronger. Pikachu tried filling the battlefield with lightining to prevent Kadabra from using Teleport, but Kadabra countered with Confusion to send the attack back at Pikachu. Kadabra then used Psychic to control Pikachu's body and started to repeatedly smash him into the ceiling and back down. Unwilling to see his friend suffer even more, Ash forfeited the match. In Ash's rematch with Sabrina in Haunter versus Kadabra, Pikachu selflessly fought Kadabra, since Haunter didn't show up and his other Pokémon were too terrified. Pikachu used Thunder Shock, which Kadabra avoided using Teleport. After taking a hit from Kadabra's Psybeam, Pikachu unleashed a powerful Thunderbolt which dealt major damage to Kadabra. Kadabra, however, quickly used Recover, negating the damage it had taken. At that moment Haunter appeared and made Sabrina and Kadabra laugh. As both Sabrina and Kadabra were unable to continue the battle, Ash was declared the winner which earned him the Marsh Badge.
In The Flame Pokémon-athon!, Pikachu entered the Big P Pokémon Race with Squirtle. The two were at a significant disadvantage due to Squirtle's short legs and Pikachu's comparative weight, but in a way this helped as they managed to escape an Electrode self-destructing. They made ground when they reached the water stage, putting them in the top four with Ash, Misty and Dario. However, intervention from Team Rocket forced a battle, and the two were put out of the running by a Glare attack from Arbok.
In Pikachu's Goodbye, Ash and his friends ran into a group of wild Pikachu, which was a very rare find. Pikachu tried to make friends with the other Pikachu, but received a lukewarm response. After saving a baby Pikachu from falling down a waterfall, Ash's Pikachu was accepted by the group. Ash was overjoyed by this at first, but soon began to feel sad, because he thought that Pikachu would be better off with the rest of his kind. After stopping Team Rocket from poaching his Pikachu and the wild Pikachu, Ash decided it was best to leave Pikachu behind with the others. Pikachu refused to leave Ash, however, and quickly ran to catch up with him, followed by the wild Pikachu, who supported Ash and Pikachu being together.
In Priness vs. Princess, Pikachu was borrowed by Misty, so she could use him in the Queen of the Princess Festival contest, where he was seen defeating a Fearow. In the finals, Pikachu was Misty's first Pokémon used against Jessie. Pikachu easily managed to defeat Arbok, Weezing and Meowth in succession with a single Thunder Shock. Pikachu then faced Jessie's Lickitung. He tried attacking with Thunderbolt, but was then licked by Lickitung and knocked away, knocking him out.
In Riddle Me This, Pikachu was Ash's last Pokémon used in his seventh Gym battle at the Cinnabar Gym, where he faced off against Blaine's Rhydon. Pikachu used his fast movements to dodge Rhydon's Fury Attack and then used Thunderbolt, which was ineffctive. Despite being immune to Electric moves, Rhydon was defeated when Pikachu aimed his Thunderbolt attack at the horn on Rhydon's head. Pikachu then faced Blaine's Magmar. Pikachu tried dodging Magmar's Fire Punch the same way he had dodged Rhydon's Fury Attack, but got hit. Pikachu then tried hitting Magmar with an Electric-type attack, but it proved to be ineffective due to Magmar's Air Lens ability, which heated the air surrounding Magmar, making Electric-type attacks ineffective. Magmar then attacked with a series of Fire Punches, driving Pikachu to the edge of the battlefield. Magmar then unleashed its Fire Blast, which managed to push Pikachu back and almost caused him to fall of the battlefield in the lava. Ash then decided to forfeit the match.

Pikachu's Poké Ball, with a lightning bolt mark, at Professor Oak's Laboratory
In The Battle of the Badge, Ash had Pikachu attack Team Rocket and their Pokémon after they sent out Arbok and Weezing to attack during their Gym battle. Using Thunderbolt, Pikachu hit all the opposing Pokémon at once, causing Machamp, Rhydon and Kingler to run away in fear and defeating Arbok and Weezing. Later, after Team Rocket got blasted off, Ash got his eighth Gym Badge, the Earth Badge.
Pikachu made friends with another Pikachu, named Puka, in The Pi-Kahuna. This particular Pikachu had blue eyes and was an excellent surfer. Ash and his friends had to save both Pikachu when Team Rocket tried to steal them both.
Ash used Pikachu many times during the Indigo Plateau Conference. In Fire and Ice, Pikachu fought against Pete Pebbleman's powerful Arcanine. Pikachu started off using Agility to confuse Arcanine, but this strategy was countered by Arcanine who melted the ice field using its Fire Blast, causing to whole battlefield to become one big pool of water. Pikachu, however, used this to his advantage by using the water to conduct his electricity and managed to defeat Arcanine with Thunderbolt.
In The Fourth Round Rumble, he fought against Jeanette Fisher's Bellsprout, who already had defeated Ash's Bulbasaur. Pikachu tried using Thunder Shock, but Bellsprout dodged and used Razor Leaf. Managing to avoid Razor Leaf, Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but it was ineffective since Bellsprout used its roots to conduct the electricity to the ground. Pikachu then engaged in hand-to-hand combat with Bellsprout, but despite trying his best, he was easily defeated by the skilled Pokémon's Slam.
Pikachu later faced off against Happy, Ritchie's Butterfree, in Friend and Foe Alike. Despite being exhausted from battling Team Rocket earlier, he still wanted to participate in the battle. Pikachu started off with Double-Edge, knocking Happy to the ground. As Happy tried flying up, he held on to it and defeated the Butterfly Pokémon with a Thunderbolt. He then faced off against Zippo, Ritchie's Charmander, but due to being exhausted by all his battles, Pikachu was quickly overwhelmed by Zippo's Flamethrower and was knocked out by its Tackle.
In Pallet Party Panic, Ash decided to take Pikachu, along with some of his other Pokémon, to the Orange Archipelago with him.
Orange Archipelago
In Pikachu Re-Volts, Butch and Cassidy used a Drowzee to take over the minds of many Pokémon on Mandarin Island North, including Pikachu. In order to rescue the Pokémon, Ash taunted Pikachu into using Thunderbolt on him, which then hit the machine that Drowzee was wired to, freeing all of the Pokémon from its grasp.
In Navel Maneuvers, Ash called on Pikachu to help mold a block of ice into a sled, as part of his competition against Danny. He later rode in the sled along with Bulbasaur and Squirtle in a race against Danny and his team. In the end, Ash managed to win the coveted Sea Ruby Badge.
In The Mandarin Island Miss Match, Ash used Pikachu in a battle against Lorelei* of the Elite Four, where he faced her Cloyster. Pikachu started off with Thunderbolt, but Cloyster used Withdraw to protect itself from the attack. Pikachu then used Agility, but got knocked back by Cloyster's Reflect. He then managed to hit Cloyster, with a super-effective Thunder, but Cloyster was still standing. After using Rage to increase its Attack, Cloyster stopped Pikachu's Quick Attack with Aurora Beam and knocked him out with Take Down.
In Misty Meets Her Match, Pikachu participated in the first part of Ash's battle with Rudy, using his Thunderbolt to blast targets. He then faced off against Rudy's Electabuzz. Pikachu started off using Thunderbolt, but Electabuzz absorbed the attack. He and Electabuzz then both used Quick Attack, but Electabuzz was able to overpower him. Pikachu then got defeated by a powerful Thunder Punch.

Pikachu offering Meowth an apple
In the following episode, Team Rocket hatched a plan to capture Pikachu that involved tying him up with Meowth. This succeeded at first, but Meowth and Pikachu got separated from Jessie and James. Being lost on the island, the two Pokémon had to work together to defeat powerful Pokémon and get to safety. In the end, Ash, Misty and Tracey managed to find the duo first, and separated them.
In Pokémon Double Trouble, Pikachu was used in Ash's Gym battle against Luana, where he had to fight alongside Charizard. Despite both Pokémon being eager to battle, they started getting angry at each other right before the battle affecting their teamwork negatively. Charizard tried hitting Alakazam and Marowak with Flamethrower, while Pikachu dashed forward. Alakazam and Marowak managed to dodge the Flamethrower, causing it to hit Pikachu. As Charizard went for Tackle, Alakazam stopped him using Psychic. Seeing how Charizard got continuously attacked by Alakazam and Marowak, Pikachu decided to help his partner and attacked Alakazam, freeing Charizard from Psychic's grasp. Pikachu then got hit by Marowak's Body Slam, but got caught by Charizard's wing. Now finally being able to work together, Pikachu jumped on Charizard's back and used Thunderbolt to stop Marowak after dodging its Bonemerang. As Alakazam was about to unleash its Hyper Beam at Charizard, it got hit by Marowak's Bonemerang, causing Hyper Beam to be launched at Marowak, knocking both Pokémon out. This gave Ash the victory, winning him the Jade Star Badge and allowing him to enter the Orange League.
In Hello, Pummelo!, Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon used in his battle against Drake, where he faced off against Drake's Ditto. Despite Ditto being able to copy Pikachu's attacks, it wasn't in good shape as Pikachu and after continuously exchanging attacks, Pikachu managed to defeat it. Pikachu was then recalled when Drake sent out his Onix. Later, Pikachu faced off against Drake's powerful Dragonite, who had already defeated three of Ash's Pokémon. Pikachu headed towards Dragonite using Agility, but got knocked back by Dragonite's tail. Dragonite then attacked with Hyper Beam, but Pikachu managed to jump on Dragonite's head by using his tail as a spring board to dodge the attack and finally defeat it with a powerful Thunder, earning Ash the Winner's Trophy and a spot in the Orange League Hall of Fame.
In The Rivalry Revival, Pikachu battled against Gary's Eevee. Pikachu started off with Quick Attack, but Eevee used Reflect to block the attack. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt, but Eevee dodged the attack using Double Team. Eevee then switched to offense and dashed forwards using Take Down. Pikachu, however, dodged this using Agility and prepared to use Thunder. Before he was able to launch his attack, however, Eevee managed to hit him with a powerful Skull Bash, knocking him out. Later in the episode, Ash decided to take Pikachu, along with his other Pokémon, to Johto with him.
Johto
In The Double Trouble Header, Ash used Pikachu in his second battle against Casey, where he faced her Chikorita. Despite Casey having only recently obtained Chikorita, it quickly gained the upper hand. Chikorita first used its Sweet Scent to tranquilize Pikachu and followed up with a Tackle. Pikachu's Thunderbolt was then deflected by Chikorita's leaf and was hit by Tackle again. The battle was then interrupted by Team Rocket, who tried to steal their Pokémon. Their plan failed however, when Pikachu and Chikorita were reunited with their Trainers and teamed up to defeat Team Rocket.
In Fighting Flyer with Fire, Pikachu was used in Ash's Violet Gym battle against Falkner, where he battled Falkner's Hoothoot. Pikachu used Agility to avoid getting hit by Hoothoot's Tackle. Hoothoot tried flying up to get out Pikachu's range, but Pikachu was still able to hit it with a super-effective Thunderbolt and then finished Hoothoot off with a Quick Attack. He then faced Falkner's Dodrio. Both Pokémon started off using Agility, matching each other's speed. Pikachu then went for Thunderbolt, but Dodrio used its great jumping ability to dodge the attack. It then hit Pikachu hard with Fury Attack followed up by Drill Peck. When Dodrio was about to finish him off with Tri Attack, Pikachu jumped high in the air and unleashed a super-effective Thunder, defeating Dodrio. Pikachu then briefly faced Falkner's Pidgeot, but as he was already tired from his previous matches he was quickly defeated by a Whirlwind.
In Gettin' The Bugs Out, Ash used Pikachu as his third Pokémon in his Azalea Gym battle, where he went up against Bugsy's Metapod. Metapod used its jumping abilities to jump high and use Tackle. Although Pikachu dodged it, it created a dust cloud and used the leaves of a nearby tree to make it unable to spot. Pikachu, however, managed to spot Metapod by using his hearing and after dodging a series of Tackles with Agility, Pikachu managed to jump on Metapod's back and defeated it with Thunderbolt. He then went up against Bugsy's last and most powerful Pokémon, Scyther. Despite Pikachu having the type-advantage, his Thunderbolt attacks constantly missed, because of Scyther using Double Team. The real Scyther then appeared behind Pikachu and hit him with Fury Cutter, with each Fury Cutter doubling in power, knocking Pikachu out.
In The Totodile Duel, Pikachu was used to battle Misty for the ownership of Totodile. He went up against Togepi. Pikachu, however, did not want to hurt his friend and forfeited the match by running away.
In A Goldenrod Opportunity, Pikachu faced off against Whitney's powerful Miltank, who had already easily defeated Ash's Cyndaquil and Totodile using Rollout. Ash had Pikachu use Thunderbolt on Miltank since she got wet by Totodile's Water Gun. However, due to Miltank spinning at great speed, she had already dried, making Thunderbolt useless. Pikachu then tried attacking with Agility, but he got overpowered by Miltank's Rollout and was then defeated by another one, causing Ash to lose the battle.
In the following episode, Pikachu battled Miltank again in Ash's rematch against Whitney. First Ash had Cyndaquil tire out Miltank and then had Totodile create ditches to slow her down. Thanks to this strategy, Miltank lost her balance, giving Pikachu the opportunity to throw Miltank in the air by hiding in one of the ditches and then finish her off with a Thunderbolt, earning Ash the Plain Badge.
In The Bug Stops Here, Pikachu and Ash entered the Bug-Catching Contest. The two encountered a Weedle, but before Pikachu could attack it, Casey's Chikorita intervened and Casey caught the Hairy Bug Pokémon. Later, Ash and Pikachu chased after a Scyther, but accidentally disturbed a swarm of Beedrill. Pikachu managed to shock one of the Beedril with Thunderbolt, giving Ash the chance to catch it. With this capture, Ash managed to win the contest, winning him a Sun Stone.
In Hook, Line, and Stinker, Ash chose Pikachu as his Pokémon to assist him in the Seaking Catching Day. After Ash managed to reel in a Seaking, Pikachu weakened it with Thunderbolt so Ash could catch it.
Pikachu befriended a bunch of Pichu in The Apple Corp!. At first they framed Pikachu into eating apples, while they actually ate them. When the Pichu were attacked by a Fearow, Pikachu scared the Fearow off with a Thunderbolt. Later Pikachu's electricity was sucked away by Team Rocket and got kidnapped. The Pichu eventually managed to restore Pikachu's electricity and together they blasted Team Rocket off.
In From Ghost to Ghost, Pikachu was used in Ash's Gym battle against Morty, where he faced off against Morty's Gastly. Pikachu managed to hit Gastly with a Quick Attack after Ash had Noctowl use Foresight earlier in the match. Despite this Gastly used its great speed to dodge Pikachu's Thunderbolt and defeated him with a single Night Shade.
In Machoke, Machoke Man!, Ash chose Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his Gym battle against Chuck. Pikachu battled Chuck's Poliwrath and managed to hit it with a super-effective Thunderbolt. Despite this Poliwrath was still standing and after absorbing a Quick Attack with its muscled body it hit Pikachu hard with a series of Double Slap attacks, knocking him out.
In Nerves of Steelix!, Ash sent out Pikachu to battle Jasmine's Magnemite. Both Pokémon proved to be equal in speed by constantly dodging each other's attacks. Finally Ash decided to let Pikachu take a Thunder Wave from Magnemite so Magnemite could get hit by a Thunderbolt, causing a lot of damage. After dodging another attack from Magnemite, Pikachu finished it off with a Quick Attack, crashing it into a wall. Next Pikachu faced off against Jasmine's strongest Pokémon Steelix. Due to his previous battle against Magnemite, Pikachu was tired and was quickly defeated by a powerful Iron Tail.
In As Cold as Pryce, Pikachu was seen aiding Cyndaquil in reviving Pryce's Piloswine. In the following episode, Nice Pryce, Baby!, Pikachu was sent out to battle Piloswine, who already had defeated Ash's Cyndaquil. Due to the icy field Pikachu constantly slipped causing his Agility to be ineffective and almost unable to avoid Piloswine's attacks. Ash then got the idea to use the ice pillars to change Pikachu's direction while sliding on the ice. Using this tactic Pikachu gained a big amount of speed and slid under Piloswine giving him the opportunity to hit Piloswine hard with Thunder. Piloswine then started to use Rest in order to return to full health. Pikachu tried to finish it off with a Quick Attack, but was too late and got hit hard by a Take Down. Pikachu was still able to battle and countered Piloswine's next Take Down with a Quick Attack and hit it with Thunder. This caused the ice under Piloswine to break causing Piloswine to fall into the water. Pikachu then hit Piloswine with Thunderbolt which caused massive damage due to Piloswine's wet fur. Despite this Piloswine was still standing and constantly hit Pikachu with Fury Attack. Seeing no other option to escape Pikachu used a close-range Thunder causing a massive explosion. Pikachu got knocked down while Piloswine still seemed to be able to battle. Pikachu still managed to stand up and as he was about to attack again Pryce threw in the towel resulting into a T.K.O., giving Ash the win and earning him the Glacier Badge.
In Fangs for Nothin', Ash chose Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his Gym battle against Clair, sending him out against her Kingdra. Unaware of Kingdra's secondary type, Ash had Pikachu go for Thunderbolt, which Kingdra easily took, much to Ash's surprise. Pikachu then tried dodging Kingdra's Twister, but as Kingdra was able to control the direction of the attack, Pikachu was caught in the tornado. Pikachu then went for Thunder, but also this Electric-type move left Kingdra unscathed. After a collision between, Hydro Pump and Thunderbolt, Pikachu managed to dodge several blasts of Hydro Pump before hitting Kingdra with Quick Attack. However, after seeing that physical moves didn't work either, Ash followed Misty and Brock's advice to recall Pikachu. Their battle was later stopped due to Team Rocket's theft of the Dragon Fang. In the following episode, Pikachu helped calming down the rampaging Dragonite that belonged to the old Blackthorn Gym Leader.
In the next episode, Pikachu was used in Ash's last Johto Gym battle against Clair, where he faced her Gyarados. Despite the double type-advantage, Gyarados proved to be quite a match for Pikachu, using its Dragon Breath to block Pikachu's Electric-type attacks. After getting hit by a Hydro Pump, Pikachu got wrapped by Gyarados. This, however, allowed Pikachu to hit Gyarados hard with a Thunderbolt. Gyarados quickly managed to recover and launched a barrage of Bite attacks, causing Pikachu to get cornered. As Clair was ready to finish the battle with a close-range Hydro Pump, Ash had Pikachu use Agility to get onto Gyarados's Hydro Pump, and defeated the Atrocious Pokémon with a Thunderbolt. Clair then sent out her Dragonair to battle Pikachu, who managed to dodge Pikachu's attacks and knock him out with a point-blank Hyper Beam.
In A Claim to Flame!, Pikachu was used by Ash in the Athlete's Round of the Silver Conference against Salvador and his Furret. Furret proved to be a tough opponent by repeatedly using Dig to confuse and attack Pikachu. Eventually Pikachu managed to grab onto Furret's back and as it dove back into one of its holes, Pikachu unleashed a powerful Thunderbolt and finally finished the match with a Quick Attack.
Pikachu was used again in Tie One On!, where he faced off against Jackson's Azumarill. Azumarill started off using Water Gun. Pikachu evaded this attack using Quick Attack and reversed to hit Azumarill, which it nearly dodged. After a collision of Thunderbolt and Bubble Beam, Pikachu got hit by Icy Wind. Azumarill then hit Pikachu with Iron Tail, but Pikachu managed to hold on his tail and launched a super-effective Thunder knocking out Azumarill. Next Pikachu went up against Jackson's Shiny Magneton. After exchanging hits from each other's Thunderbolt, Magneton dodged Pikachu's Quick Attack and stunned Pikachu with Thunder Wave before defeating him with Tri Attack.
In Playing with Fire!, Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon used in his battle against Harrison. Pikachu battled Harrison's Kecleon, which used its Color Change Ability to hide itself in the tall grass while hitting Pikachu with its tongue. Eventually, Pikachu managed to grab Kecleon's tongue and defeated it with Thunderbolt. Harrison then sent out his Sneasel. Sneasel managed to avoid Pikachu's Thunderbolt and defeated him with a single Metal Claw.
After saying farewell to Misty and Brock in Gotta Catch Ya Later!, Ash decided to only take Pikachu with him to Hoenn and left Pallet Town with him at the end of the episode. In the following episode, while getting ready to depart for Hoenn by ship, Ash and Pikachu got attacked by Team Rocket, who used an electromagnet to stick Pikachu to it and drain his electricity. Eventually Pikachu got saved thanks to the help of some wild Pokémon and Officer Jenny. The next day, Ash tried to wake Pikachu up, but soon noticed that he was suffering from a severe illness caused by the electromagnet.
Advanced Generation series
Hoenn
In Get the Show on the Road!, Ash was willing to take Pikachu for some help in taking care of the illness. He met up with Professor Birch, who took Pikachu to his lab. Even though they were able to strap him to the machine to drain out the overload electricity he received, the machine exploded as the electricity levels were too high. Pikachu then ran off, with Ash and Professor Birch chasing after him. Eventually, Ash managed to find Pikachu, but Pikachu, in his confused state, attacked him and fled towards the end of a cliff. As Pikachu fell off the cliff, Ash jumped after him and managed to catch him and grab a branch. Pikachu tried resisting, but Ash was able to get through and calm him down. When Ash and Pikachu were pulled up to safety, Team Rocket arrived. Their mecha accidentally cured Pikachu of his illness and he was able to blast them off, destroying May's bike in the process.
In There's no Place like Hoenn, Ash used Pikachu in an unofficial 1-on-1 battle against Norman, since Ash only had one Pokémon at the time instead of the three required. Norman's Vigoroth proved to be a tough opponent, dodging Pikachu's attacks with ease and hitting him hard with multiple Scratch attacks. Pikachu managed to successfully hit Vigoroth with Quick Attack, but Vigoroth hit him again and defeated him with one final Scratch. After their match, Team Rocket tried to steal Pikachu and Vigoroth but accidentally stole Torchic. Later Pikachu was used alongside Norman's Vigoroth to battle Team Rocket and blasted them off as well as rescuing Torchic.
In All Things Bright and Beautifly!, Ash began teaching Pikachu Iron Tail in preparation for his Rustboro Gym battle, a Rock-type Gym, and got help from a Coordinator named Chaz and his Sentret. Despite their effort and training, Pikachu was still unable to fully master Iron Tail.
In The Winner by a Nosepass, Pikachu was Ash's last Pokémon used in his Gym battle against Roxanne, where he was sent out against her Geodude. Pikachu started off using Thunder to flatten the rocky battlefield. Geodude countered with Rock Throw, which Pikachu managed to dodge using Quick Attack only to end up right in front of Geodude. This gave Geodude the chance to hit him hard with a Mega Punch. As Geodude used Rollout to finish Pikachu off, it got stuck and couldn’t execute its attack because of the flattened battlefield. Pikachu used this opportunity to get close using Quick Attack and hit Geodude with a powerful Thunder, defeating it. Pikachu then faced Roxanne's Nosepass. Pikachu started off using Iron Tail, which managed to successfully hit Nosepass. After dodging Nosepass’s attack, Pikachu went for a second Iron Tail, but failed this time. Nosepass then used Rock Tomb to trap Pikachu, but he managed to break free using Thunder. Nosepass then countered with Sandstorm, deteriorating Pikachu’s sight. Nosepass, however, was able to sense Pikachu using its electromagnetic nose and managed to slam its body into him. Nosepass then tried to stomp on Pikachu, but he managed to avoid it by using Quick Attack. After using Quick Attack again to dodge Nosepass’s Rock Tomb, Pikachu used Quick Attack to run around Nosepass in order to confuse it. He then managed to get behind Nosepass and used Iron Tail, only to fail once again. Nosepass then went for Thunder Wave, which Pikachu barely avoided. Ash then had Pikachu charge towards Nosepass and let him take its Zap Cannon, causing Pikachu to absorb the electricity. Pikachu then tackled Nosepass, releasing the electricity at Nosepass, causing it to become paralyzed. Pikachu then defeated Nosepass with one final Iron Tail, finally mastering the move in the process as well as earning Ash the Stone Badge.
In Watt's with Wattson?, Ash and his friends arrived at Mauville City and immediately proceeded to the Mauville Gym. Inside the group encountered a robot Raikou. Thinking it would attack, Ash ordered Pikachu to attack the robot with Iron Tail, causing an explosion. This destroyed the robot, but also overcharged Pikachu with electricity, unbeknownst to the rest, however. Later, Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon used in his Gym Battle against Wattson. Pikachu first faced Wattson's Magnemite. Due to being overcharged, Pikachu defeated Magnemite with a single Thunderbolt after dodging a Swift attack. Next, Pikachu battled Wattson's Voltorb and also managed to easily defeat it with another Thunderbolt. Getting agitated, Wattson sent out his Magneton and ordered it to use Zap Cannon. Pikachu easily managed to overpower this attack with Thunder, which also knocked Magneton out, earning Ash the Dynamo Badge.
In Going, Going, Yawn, Ash used Pikachu as his third Pokémon in his Lavaridge Gym battle. He was sent out against Flannery's Slugma, after it had burned Treecko and put Corphish to Sleep. After using Quick Attack to dodge Flamethrower, he finally broke Magcargo's Reflect that was affecting previous battles. Slugma then used Smog to cover itself. Pikachu, however, was able to sense it and used Iron Tail. Slugma managed to dodge and hit him with a Flamethrower. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt and although it looked like it initially missed, it electrified the Smog, harming Slugma. Flannery called for Yawn, but Ash unwilling for that to happen, had Pikachu use Quick Attack, hitting it before Yawn could be executed and then finished Slugma off with Thunder. Ash kept Pikachu in when Flannery used her last Pokémon, Torkoal. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but it was blocked by Iron Defense. Pikachu then dodged a Flamethrower and used Iron Tail, but it was blocked by Iron Defense as well. Torkoal then used Sludge Bomb, which hit Pikachu. Pikachu tried attacking with Thunder, but his attack was blocked by Iron Defense once again. Torkoal then used Overheat, defeating Pikachu.
In Balance of Power, Ash used Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his Petalburg Gym battle against Norman. He went up against Slakoth. Pikachu used Quick Attack on Slakoth, which was dodged. After dodging a Shadow Ball, Pikachu used Iron Tail, only to be dodged as well, dazing Pikachu. Slakoth then used Hidden Power. Pikachu tried to destroy them with Thunderbolt, but failed and was hit by the circling Hidden Power. Pikachu then tried hitting Slakoth with Thunder, but this was dodged as well. Slakoth then countered with Blizzard, disabling Pikachu to move. Being unable to move, Pikachu was recalled. Later, Pikachu was sent out against Norman's Vigoroth. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but Vigoroth swiftly dodged it and launched a Scratch attack. Pikachu, however, successfully blocked the attack with Iron Tail, but Vigoroth quickly recovered and launched a Flamethrower, dealing much damage. Pikachu's electricity gave Ash an idea, he got Pikachu use Quick Attack to dodge Vigoroth's Flamethrower. When Vigoroth launched another Scratch, Ash told Pikachu to stop and let him get hit. This activated Pikachu's Ability Static, paralyzing Vigoroth. This allowed Pikachu to defeat Vigoroth with Iron Tail. However, all this battling took its toll, as Pikachu fainted as well, ending the battle in a draw.
In Sky High Gym Battle!, Pikachu was Ash's second Pokémon used in his Fortree Gym battle against Winona. Pikachu battled against Winona's Pelipper and despite the major type-advantage, Pelipper proved to be a formidable opponent, being able to use Steel Wing as a lightning rod to conduct Pikachu's Electric-type attacks to the ground, thus preventing damage. After Pikachu got hit by a Quick Attack, Ash decided Pikachu should fight at close-range and told him to use Quick Attack to get closer. This, however, gave Pelipper the opportunity to hit Pikachu hard with a Hydro Pump. Pikachu, however, stood his ground and when Pelipper lifted its wing from the ground for a moment, Ash had Pikachu use Thunder on Pelipper. With both Pokémon being hit by powerful attacks, Pikachu and Pelipper both fainted.
In A Scare to Remember!, Pikachu developed amnesia after an attack by Team Rocket and their mecha. Team Rocket took advantage of this and tricked Pikachu into joining them. He was then ordered to attack the group. Trying to get Pikachu back, Ash jumped on their balloon. Team Rocket ordered Pikachu to hit Ash with Thunderbolt, causing them to get blasted off and causing Ash and Pikachu to fall down in a river. With Ash protecting Pikachu, Pikachu managed to regain his memory and got rid of Team Rocket once again.
In Gaining Groudon, Ash and the group got on a submarine owned by Team Magma, where they met Team Magma's leader, Maxie. An explosion caused by Kyogre, caused the Blue Orb to fly off Maxie's desk. Pikachu managed to catch the orb before Team Magma could regain it. The orb, however, soon started to glow and melted into Pikachu's body, greatly increasing his power, but also making him lose control over himself. In the next episode, Pikachu awakened Groudon and aided it in its battle with Kyogre. Due to everyone's teamwork, Groudon was able to defeat Kyogre, causing the Blue Orb to emerge from Pikachu's body. Pikachu was then saved from drowning by Kyogre and later bade it and Groudon farewell.
In Solid as a Solrock, Ash used Pikachu and Swellow in the Double Battle against Tate and Liza with their respective Solrock and Lunatone. Solrock and Lunatone both started off using Tackle which both scored a direct hit on Pikachu and Swellow. Pikachu and Swellow then tried hitting their opponents with Quick Attack and Peck, but their attack was dodged, causing them to crash into planets hanging from the ceiling and fall on top of each other on the ground. This gave Solrock and Lunatone the opportunity to launch a Solar Beam and Ice Beam. As the attacks were about to hit their marks, the two beams accidentally collided, canceling each other out, causing the twins to quarrel. Ash used this chance to recover and had Pikachu and Swellow strike the opposing Pokémon with a respective Iron Tail and Aerial Ace. Both Meteorite Pokémon then charged towards Pikachu using Tackle, but Swellow was able to save him in time, causing Solrock and Lunatone to crash into each other. The battle then got interrupted by Team Rocket, who destroyed the gym using their mecha and stole Solrock and Lunatone.
After Team Rocket was defeated, they all agreed to resume their battle outdoors. This time, however, the twins managed to put their differences aside and worked together as a team. Ash first had Pikachu use Thunderbolt on Solrock, but his attack was sent back by Lunatone's Light Screen, sending Pikachu flying into a wall. As Swellow tried to attack with Aerial Ace, Solrock used Sandstorm to sent Swellow flying as well. Pikachu then jumped on Swellow's back and used Thunderbolt again, only to be deflected back by Light Screen again, hitting Pikachu and Swellow hard. Swellow then used Double Team, but Solrock and Lunatone countered using Solar Beam and Ice Beam to wipe out the copies. Much to Tate and Liza's surprise, however, Pikachu and Swellow got away unscathed. Swellow then dove down from the sky along with Pikachu to attack, but Solrock and Lunatone quickly responded and hit them with Solar Beam and Ice Beam. Ash thought about how to negate the dual attacks and then had Pikachu use Thunder on the clouds. Lightning then struck Pikachu and Swellow, which the two managed to endure. Once clear, Pikachu and Swellow were coated in a "Thunder Armor". Using this technique, Pikachu and Swellow managed to pierce through Solrock's Solar Beam and Lunatone's Light Screen and managed to defeat them using Iron Tail and Aerial Ace, earning Ash the Mind Badge.
In Vanity Affair, Ash used Pikachu against Hoenn Elite Four member Drake. Pikachu battled against his Shelgon. Pikachu used Thunderbolt and scored a direct hit. As Pikachu went for a second Thunderbolt, Shelgon used Double-Edge and managed to dodge the attack. Due to Shelgon's low Speed, Pikachu easily dodged the attack with Quick Attack. When Pikachu was about to finish Shelgon off with Iron Tail, Shelgon had Pikachu come close and then hit him hard with Dragon Breath. Shelgon then followed up with Dragon Claw, knocking Pikachu out.
In The Great Eight Fate! Ash chose Pikachu, along with his Snorunt as his first two Pokémon in a Double Battle in the first round of his Sootopolis Gym battle. They went up against Juan's Sealeo and Seaking. Pikachu used his Thunderbolt on Sealeo, but Seaking used Horn Drill to reflect it to Snorunt. Pikachu then used Thunder, but Seaking once again used Horn Drill to reflect the attack to Snorunt again. This time, however, Pikachu protected Snorunt, taking most of the damage. Sealeo then used Blizzard on the two, dealing much damage to Pikachu. Ash then had Snorunt use its Icy Wind to freeze the Blizzard, creating an ice pillar, which blocked Juan's view. Sealeo and Seaking destroyed the pillar with their Aurora Beam and Hyper Beam respectively, this created ice shards, which Ash had Snorunt and Pikachu jump on. Snorunt then used Headbutt, while Pikachu used Iron Tail. Seaking and Sealeo responded using Hyper Beam and Aurora Beam. While Pikachu was able to dodge Aurora Beam, Snorunt wasn't able to avoid the Hyper Beam and was knocked out. Ash then sent out his Corphish. After dodging Corphish's Bubble Beam, both of Juan's Pokémon attacked from below with Sealeo using Aurora Beam on Pikachu's platform, which he was able to dodge. Seaking attacked Corphish with Horn Attack, but Corphish was able to grab its horn. Seaking, however, used Horn Drill, sending Corphish flying. Ash then had Pikachu use Iron Tail on Seaking. Despite Sealeo trying to stop Pikachu using Aurora Beam, Pikachu was able to defeat Seaking as well as avoid the attack in time. Pikachu then rode on Corphish's back, heading towards Sealeo. Sealeo tried stopping them using Ice Ball, which got stronger with each attack. While Pikachu and Corphish managed to destroy the first three Ice Balls, the fourth one managed to hit them both. Sealeo then launched a fifth Ice Ball at them both. Pikachu launched a Thunder at the Ice Ball and after increasing its power, he was able to break it. While the falling ice shards were hurting Sealeo, Corphish was able to defeat it with its Crabhammer, knocking it out and ending the first round of the Sootopolis Gym battle in Ash's favor. Both Pokémon were then recalled. In the next episode, Pikachu was used as Ash's last Pokémon in the second round of the Sootopolis Gym battle, going up against Juan's last and strongest Pokémon, his Milotic. Ash had Pikachu use Thunder and although it dealt a lot of damage, Milotic nullified the damage by using Recover. Both Pokémon then used Iron Tail, in which Milotic's overpowered Pikachu's. Milotic quickly followed up with Twister, which was powered up by the water. Much to Juan's surprise, Pikachu was able to break through with Thunder and followed with up with a powerful Quick Attack. Milotic then used Hydro Pump, which Pikachu dodged and used a super-effective Thunderbolt. Milotic, however, shook the attack off and used Recover, healing itself once again. Milotic then went underwater, making both Ash and Pikachu unable to see it. Milotic then tried hitting Pikachu with Iron Tail, but he dodged it and climbed onto Milotic's body. Milotic tried stopping him using Hydro Pump, but he dodged the attack. Pikachu then grabbed onto its eyebrows and flipped the Tender Pokémon into the water. While underwater, Pikachu used Thunder, dealing major damage to Milotic as water was an excellent conductor of electricity. This knocked out Milotic, winning Ash the battle and earning him the Rain Badge.
In Less is Morrison, Ash used Pikachu in a 1-on-1 battle against his new rival Morrison. He faced Morrison's Beldum. At first, Pikachu had the upperhand as the only move Beldum knew was Take Down, which he easily dodged before retaliating with Quick Attack and Thunderbolt. Pikachu then dodged another Take Down, but this time Beldum reversed and finally managed to hit Pikachu with its attack. After getting hit by a second Take Down, Pikachu used Iron Tail to counter another one, causing a big explosion which knocked both Pokémon out.
In Saved by the Beldum, Ash used Pikachu for the first round in the Ever Grande Conference, he went up against Gilbert and his Hitmonlee. Hitmonlee used Rolling Kick, but Pikachu managed to avoid the attack and hit Hitmonlee with Iron Tail. Hitmonlee then went for High Jump Kick, which Pikachu managed to dodge as well using Quick Attack, causing crash damage to Hitmonlee. As Pikachu charged in for one final attack, Hitmonlee hit him with Mega Kick. While heading towards the ground, Pikachu managed to escape Hitmonlee's kick and hit him with Iron Tail, knocking it out and causing Ash to advance to the next round of the tournament.
In Shocks and Bonds, Ash used Pikachu as his second Pokémon in his Full Battle against Katie in the Victory Tournament part of the Ever Grande Conference. He went up against Katie's Golduck and was sent out due to the type advantage he had. Katie, however, immediately switched to her Dugtrio, who had a type-advantage of its own. Pikachu used Quick Attack, but Dugtrio used Dig to dodge the attack. Dugtrio then used Sand Tomb, creating a huge patch of quicksand, Pikachu tried to escape but couldn't and got pulled by the sand. Ash had Pikachu use Thunderbolt, which had no effect on Dugtrio since it was a Ground-type Pokémon. Dugtrio then used Double-Edge and Pikachu attempted to block with Iron Tail, but when both moves collided, Pikachu was knocked out while Dugtrio emerged unharmed.
In Choose It or Lose It!, Ash used Pikachu as his second Pokémon in his Full Battle against Morrison in the Ever Grande Conference. He went up against his Steelix. Steelix used Dragon Breath, but Pikachu dodged it and used Quick Attack. Steelix countered with Iron Tail, hitting Pikachu hard. Steelix then used Dig, hitting Pikachu from underneath. Pikachu tried using Iron Tail, but Steelix quickly dodged that with another Dig. Pikachu then managed to dodge Dig and hit Steelix with Quick Attack. Both Pokémon then used Iron Tail, but Steelix's managed to overpower Pikachu's, knocking him out.
In At the End of the Fray, Ash used Pikachu as his sixth and last Pokémon in his Full Battle against Tyson. He went up against Tyson's Metagross, who had already defeated Swellow and Grovyle, but had a crack in its armor as a result. Pikachu used Thunderbolt on the crack, but it didn't do much to Metagross. Metagross then used Psychic on Pikachu, but he was able to dodge it and hit Metagross with Iron Tail. Pikachu then climbed onto Metagross, and as Metagross was unable to shake him off, Pikachu finally defeated the Iron Leg Pokémon with Thunder. Pikachu then went up against Tyson's last Pokémon, his Meowth. Pikachu's Thunderbolt and Thunder attacks soon proved to be useless, as Meowth each time defended itself against Pikachu's Electric-type attacks with its Thunderbolt. After realizing this, Ash had Pikachu fight close-range and ordered him to use Quick Attack. Meowth, however, dodged this with Double Team and followed up with Iron Tail. Pikachu countered with his own Iron Tail, causing the moves to collide. Pikachu and Meowth started attacking unceasing, with each time their attacks colliding. Both Pokémon then used Iron Tail, with both Pokémon taking the hit, knocking them both down. Though initially both of them got up, Pikachu fainted from exhaustion, causing Ash to end up in the Top 8 of the Ever Grande Conference.
Kanto Battle Frontier
In The Scheme Team, Ash used Pikachu in his battle against Elite Four Agatha and her Gengar at the Viridian Gym. Pikachu started off using Quick Attack, but failed since Gengar was a Ghost-type Pokémon. It was too fast for Pikachu's Thunderbolt, but after dodging a Shadow Ball, Pikachu was able to hit Gengar with an Iron Tail. Gengar then hit Pikachu with Shadow Ball, but Pikachu was able to climb on the Shadow Ball and went for Iron Tail. Gengar, however, was able to prevent Pikachu from using Iron Tail with Double Team. Pikachu was able to destroy all the copies with Thunderbolt as well as hit Gengar with it. He then dodged a Shadow Ball and hit Gengar with Iron Tail. When Pikachu was about finish Gengar off with Thunder, Gengar used Hypnosis, putting him to sleep. Gengar then proceeded to defeat him with Dream Eater. Afterwards, he helped to defeat Team Rocket along with Agatha's Golbat, Ash later decided to enter the Kanto Battle Frontier along with Pikachu and his other Pokémon. He was later reunited with Misty, when he and Ash returned to Pallet Town.
In May's Egg-Cellent Adventure, while battling Team Rocket's mecha, he used Quick Attack, which morphed into Volt Tackle, easily destroying the mecha and blasting Team Rocket off. Despite this, Pikachu couldn't master the move. After lots of training, Pikachu was finally able to master Volt Tackle in The Green Guardian, using the move to blast Team Rocket off and save a wild Celebi.
In Queen of the Serpentine!, when going to the Battle Pike, Pikachu was captured by Team Rocket using their fake Battle Pike until rescued by Lucy and her Seviper from the real Battle Pike. Later, Ash used Pikachu as his second and last Pokémon in his Battle Pike challenge against Lucy. Pikachu went up against her Milotic. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but Lucy had Milotic take the attack and countered with Hydro Pump. Both Pokémon then used Iron Tail, but Milotic managed to overpower Pikachu. Pikachu's Quick Attack was then countered by Twister and he was then hit by Hydro Pump. Milotic then used Iron Tail, but Pikachu countered with Volt Tackle, blocking Iron Tail and paralyzing Milotic. Pikachu then used Quick Attack, but Milotic countered with a Facade, and since Milotic was paralyzed its power was doubled, dealing major damage to Pikachu. Ash then had Pikachu use Thunderbolt on himself. As Milotic was about to end the match with Twister, Ash had Pikachu, boosted by Thunderbolt, jump into the Twister. Inside the Twister, Pikachu began spinning and used Volt Tackle, increasing his power and proceeded to knock Milotic out, winning Ash the battle and earning him the Luck Symbol.
In Off the Unbeaten Path, Pikachu was chosen as Ash's partner in the Pokémon Orienteering. In the end, however, the competition was won by James and his Mime Jr..
In Talking a Good Game!, Pikachu was the third Pokémon to battle against Anabel. He went up against her Alakazam, who had already defeated Ash's former two Pokémon. Pikachu managed to hit Alakazam with Thunderbolt, but Alakazam nullified the damage using Recover. Both Pokémon then started exchanging Iron Tail and Focus Punch attacks and then hit each other with their respective Thunderbolt and Psybeam. Ash then ordered Pikachu to use Volt Tackle, but Pikachu ran straight towards the wall due to Psybeam's confusion effect. Pikachu, however, managed to snap out of the confusion, after Ash had saved it and managed to overpower Alakazam's Psybeam with Thunderbolt, defeating it. He went up against Metagross next. Metagross managed to sent Pikachu's Thunderbolt back at him using Psychic, dealing much damage. As Pikachu went for Quick Attack, Metagross used Iron Defense to block the attack and hit Pikachu hard with Meteor Mash. Pikachu then used Volt Tackle, but Metagross fired a Hyper Beam, which defeated Pikachu, losing Ash the battle.
In the next episode, Pikachu was used in Ash's rematch against Anabel, this time facing her Espeon. Espeon showed to have great speed and power, dodging Pikachu's attacks and immediately after hit Pikachu with its own attacks. After getting hit by Espeon's Quick Attack and Iron Tail, Ash had Pikachu use Thunderbolt. Espeon's Zap Cannon managed to overpower Pikachu's attack and hit him hard. Pikachu tried Thunderbolt once again, but it was dodged. Espeon then countered with Psychic, smashing Pikachu to the ceiling, causing Pikachu to fall down. Pikachu, however, managed to land on his feet and used Quick Attack. Espeon used Psychic again to stop Pikachu and lifted him in the air. Pikachu managed to bounce off the ceiling and land on one of the stadium's lights. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt, causing the lights to turn off. Unable to see anything Espeon was hit by Pikachu's next Thunderbolt. Pikachu then managed to avoid several Zap Cannon attacks and hit Espeon again with Thunderbolt. Just as the lights turned on again, Pikachu jumped down and hit Espeon hard with his Iron Tail. He then rushed towards Espeon using Volt Tackle. Despite trying to stop Pikachu using Zap Cannon, the attack missed and Espeon got knocked out by the powerful attack. This gave Ash the win and earned him the Ability Symbol.
In Gathering the Gang of Four!, in preparation for Ash's rematch against Brandon for his final frontier symbol, Pikachu reunited with Bulbasaur, Squirtle and Charizard. Using Quick Attack to round up leaves created by Squirtle's Rapid Spin and Bulbasaur's Vine Whip, they were able to make a den to sleep. Although he got in a fight with the other Pokémon, they later calmed down. The next day, they all continued to train. Pikachu was later captured by Team Rocket but was rescued thanks to the efforts of Ash and the other Pokémon. They then combined their attacks to send Team Rocket blasting off. Afterwards, they met up with Brandon again and he agreed to have a four-on-four rematch with Pikachu and the other Pokémon at the Battle Pyramid.
Pikachu was the fourth and final Pokémon used in Ash's Battle Pyramid challenge against Pyramid King Brandon in Pace - The Final Frontier!. After Charizard, Squirtle, Bulbasaur, and Brandon's first three Pokémon were eliminated from the match, Pikachu was pitted against Brandon's Regice. Ash first had Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but Regice seemed unfazed by the attack. Regice then countered with Blizzard. Pikachu quickly recovered and used Iron Tail, but was unable to land since he had to dodge the Iceberg Pokémon's Ice Beam. Regice used Ice Beam again to counter Pikachu's Quick Attack and despite Pikachu managing to dodge the attack again, the whole battle field got frozen in the process. This made Regice be able to move much quicker, while making it harder for Pikachu to move. As Regice was about to hit Pikachu with a Focus Punch, Pikachu was able to hit Regice with Thunderbolt, stunning it. This allowed Pikachu to hit Regice with a super-effective Iron Tail. Regice, however, quickly recovered and used Ice Beam, creating ice pillars, which trapped Pikachu. With Pikachu being unable to do anything, Regice used Rest to heal itself completely. Despite Pikachu managing to escape using Iron Tail, Regice was able to wake up before Pikachu could attack it and hit him with an Ice Beam, freezing him. While Ash was yelling words of encouragement, the referee began to declare Pikachu unable to battle. Pikachu, however, managed to thaw out using Thunderbolt while also hit Regice with it. Regice then hit Pikachu with Focus Punch to send Pikachu bouncing across the ice field. Pikachu, however, used this to his advantage and bounced back to Regice to hit it with two consecutive Iron Tails. Regice, however, was still standing and managed to trap Pikachu again between ice pillars using Ice Beam and started to rest up again. Pikachu escaped again using Iron Tail and charged towards Regice using Volt Tackle. Regice managed to awake in time again and started using Ice Beam to stop Pikachu. Pikachu, however, dodged the attack and hit Regice with a powerful Volt Tackle, finally knocking the Iceberg Pokémon out. This gave Ash the win and finally earned him his last Symbol, Brave Symbol.

Pikachu performing in a Pokémon Contest
In Once More With Reeling, Ash used Pikachu in the Performance Stage of the unofficial Terracotta Town Pokémon Contest. He used Quick Attack and Thunderbolt at the same time to create electrical rings and then sent them off with Iron Tail. When they collided, it created a firework like effect. This performance allowed Ash to proceed to the Battle Stage.
In Home is Where the Start Is!, Ash used Pikachu in a friendly battle against Gary, who used his powerful Electivire, a Pokémon from the Sinnoh region. Both Pokémon used Thunderbolt and were evenly matched. Pikachu then used Quick Attack, but it was dodged by Electivire. Both Pokémon then used Iron Tail, but they were even again. Pikachu then used a close range Thunderbolt, which Electivire dodged by jumping. This, however, was what Ash wanted and had Pikachu use Volt Tackle since it was now defenseless. Electivire, however, blocked the attack with Protect, damaging Pikachu due to recoil. Electivire then launched its powerful Thunder Punch, defeating Pikachu. Later, Pikachu went with Ash to Sinnoh, intending for him to be the only Pokémon to go with him, as he left his other Pokémon at Professor Oak's laboratory. However, Aipom snuck on board of their ship and Ash allowed her to accompany them to Sinnoh.
Diamond & Pearl series
In Following a Maiden's Voyage!, Pikachu was temporarily separated from Ash thanks to yet another plot by Team Rocket. Eventually, in Two Degrees of Separation!, Dawn found Pikachu and tried to catch him, but failed since he already had a Trainer. She also protected him from Team Rocket and managed to blast Team Rocket off alongside with him. Pikachu was eventually reunited with Ash in When Pokémon Worlds Collide!. Later, he was used as Ash's final Pokémon in a battle against Ash's new rival, Paul, and his Elekid. Pikachu started off using Thunderbolt, but Elekid simply absorbed the attack and then launched a powerful Thunder at him. Pikachu then used Volt Tackle, but Elekid blocked the attack using Protect, causing him to take recoil damage. Pikachu, however, managed to get up and used Iron Tail, which was countered by Elekid's Brick Break. As the two moves were colliding, Paul mentioned Elekid still had one free arm and ordered it to hit Pikachu with Thunder Punch. Pikachu, however, managed to block Thunder Punch with Iron Tail and then hit Elekid hard. Elekid then managed to hit Pikachu with one more Brick Break, but as both Pokémon were exhausted they both fell down, resulting the battle in a tie.
In Dawn of a New Era!, Ash used Pikachu to battle Nando's Budew. Pikachu started off using Quick Attack. Budew tried countering with Bullet Seed, but Pikachu avoided the attack and hit Budew hard. Pikachu then got hit by Budew's Mega Drain, restoring some of Budew's health. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt, dealing much damage to Budew. Budew then surprised everyone by evolving into Roselia. Roselia used Sunny Day and followed up with Solar Beam. Pikachu, however, managed to dodge Solar Beam and defeated Roselia with a powerful Iron Tail.

Ash and Pikachu in the Diamond & Pearl series
In A Gruff Act to Follow, Ash used Pikachu as his second Pokémon in his first Sinnoh Gym battle against Roark and his Cranidos. Pikachu started off using Thunderbolt, but Cranidos dodged it and used Zen Headbutt. Pikachu stopped the attack with Iron Tail. However, Cranidos was able to withstand the attack and used Headbutt. Although Pikachu managed to dodge and attempted to use Thunderbolt, Cranidos still managed to score a direct hit on him. Pikachu then tried to use Thunderbolt again, but Cranidos used Zen Headbutt to stop him and then used another Headbutt to knock him to the ground. When Paul got up to leave, believing Ash had already lost, Pikachu suddenly showed his strength by letting off a powerful electric attack in the air, causing Paul to stay. As the battle continued, Pikachu used Quick Attack, while Cranidos used Flamethrower. Pikachu dodged the attack and hit Cranidos with Iron Tail. Cranidos then used Head Smash, while Pikachu countered with Volt Tackle. The collision of these attacks caused much damage to both Pokémon. Not wanting Pikachu to take anymore damage, Ash recalled him. Later, Pikachu was sent out again to battle Roark's Onix. Pikachu used Iron Tail, which was countered by Onix's Slam. Ash then came up with an idea and had Pikachu use Thunderbolt on the battlefield, causing rocks to be launched in the air. Onix tried heading forwards using Double-Edge, but couldn't due to the rocks. Pikachu then headed towards Onix using Quick Attack, but Onix quickly recovered and countered with Screech. Despite trying to still move forwards, Pikachu was overwhelmed by the attack and was blasted away, knocking him out and making Ash lose the battle.
In O'er the Rampardos We Watched!, Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon used in his rematch against Roark, where he faced Roark's Onix again. Pikachu used Quick Attack to climb onto Onix's body, after dodging a Slam. Onix tried to stop Pikachu using Screech, but failed and Pikachu managed to reach Onix's head. Despite trying to shake Pikachu off, Onix got hit by a super-effective Iron Tail. Onix then went for Double-Edge with Pikachu heading straight towards Onix. At the last moment, however, Pikachu used his newly learned spin technique to dodge the attack and went for another Iron Tail. Onix, however, managed to dodge and hit Pikachu hard with Slam. Onix then used Stealth Rock, but the move was countered by Pikachu's Thunderbolt, preventing it from being executed as well as damaging Onix. Pikachu then used Iron Tail and while Onix tried countering with Screech, he managed to outspeed the Rock Snake Pokémon and defeated it. Pikachu was recalled when Roark sent out his Geodude. Pikachu was later sent out to battle Roark's Rampardos. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but Rampardos dodged and went for Zen Headbutt. Pikachu tried dodging the attack using his spin technique again, but still got hurt in the process. He then used Quick Attack, while Rampardos countered with Headbutt. Pikachu managed to avoid Headbutt by spinning head over heels, but got thrown in ther air by Rampardos's tail. Pikachu then headed down using Iron Tail with Rampardos countering with Zen Headbutt. This caused Pikachu's Static to activate, but it was cancelled out by Rampardos's Mold Breaker. Rampardos then hit Pikachu hard with Zen Headbutt, knocking him out.
In Getting the Pre-Contest Titters!, Ash used Pikachu in a battle against Kenny and his Prinplup. Pikachu started off using Thunderbolt, but the attack was blocked by Prinplup's Metal Claw. Prinplup then used Drill Peck, but Pikachu managed to dodge the attack by spinning and hit Prinplup with Iron Tail, sending it to the ground. Prinplup, however, used Bubble Beam to create a cushion to land safely. Pikachu and Prinplup then clashed with Iron Tail and Metal Claw. The battle was then interrupted by Team Rocket.
In All Dressed Up With Somewhere To Go!, Ash entered Pikachu in the Pokémon Dress-Up Contest. Pikachu was able to imitate several Pokémon and, as a result, advanced to the finals. However, he ended up losing to Brock's Croagunk.
In Tag! We're It...!, Pikachu was used in the first round of the Hearthome City Tag Battle Competition, where he battled alongside Paul's Chimchar. Pikachu and Chimchar faced a Rhydon and a Magmar. Pikachu started off using Thunderbolt on Magmar, but the attack got redirected to Rhydon due to its Lightning Rod Ability. Unharmed by the Electric-type attack, Rhydon proceeded to hit Pikachu hard with Megahorn. Magmar then used Lava Plume, dealing minor damage Rhydon. While Pikachu managed to dodge the attack, Paul had Chimchar jump right in to power up its Fire-type moves. Despite this, Chimchar's Flamethrower did little damage to Rhydon and Chimchar got hit by a powerful Hammer Arm. Pikachu then managed to hit Rhydon with a super-effective Iron Tail, dealing much damage. Rhydon then used Surf, while Magmar protected itself with Protect. Pikachu, however, managed to break through the Surf and defeat Rhydon using Iron Tail. Pikachu then used Volt Tackle, while Magmar countered with Fire Punch. This gave Chimchar the opportunity to hit Magmar with a super-effective Dig, knocking it out and causing Ash and Paul to proceed to the next round of the tournament.
In The Keystone Pops!, Ash and Pikachu tried stopping a wild Spiritomb from rampaging, after the gang accidentally destroyed the Hallowed Tower, thus freeing Spiritomb from the Odd Keystone. Eventually, Pikachu managed to defeat Spiritomb with Volt Tackle and Thunderbolt after a hard fought battle and the group managed to seal Spiritomb in the Keystone again.
In Lost Leader Strategy!, Pikachu encountered Paul's Electabuzz again at Reggie's home, where the two started fighting. The Pokémon got separated by Maylene's Lucario. Later, Pikachu was Ash's last Pokémon used in a battle against Reggie. Pikachu faced Reggie's Staraptor. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, but Staraptor managed to dodge and used Brave Bird. Pikachu tried dodging using his spin technique, but failed to do so and got hit hard. Pikachu then managed to dodge Staraptor's Steel Wing, by using Iron Tail on the ground to jump high in the air. He then used Volt Tackle, which was countered by Staraptor's Wing Attack, causing both Pokémon to fall down. In the end however, only Pikachu remained standing, giving Ash the win.
In Pika and Goliath!, an arrogant Electric-type trainer named Sho wished Ash to trade Pikachu to him, as he already had a Pichu and Raichu and wanted to have the full evolution line in his team. Ash obviously refused, so Sho challenged him to a battle against his powerful Raichu. Unlike Lt. Surge's Raichu, this particular Raichu was fast as well as knew powerful attacks. Pikachu's Thunderbolt was easily taken by Raichu, who then proceeded to launch Thunder at Pikachu. Pikachu unwilling to dodge, took the attack and charged in using Volt Tackle. Raichu countered with its own Volt Tackle, sending both Pokémon flying back. Raichu managed to land back on its feet, while Pikachu crashed into a rock. Both Pokémon then clashed with Iron Tail. Raichu then managed to take Pikachu's Quick Attack and started using Hyper Beam. As Pikachu was trying to get away, Raichu used its tail to trap Pikachu and proceeded to hit him with a close-range Hyper Beam, defeating him as well as seriously injuring him. During his recovery, Pikachu began to reconsider his earlier decision not to evolve since there would always be attacks and abilities that he simply couldn't learn otherwise. When Ash went to check on Pikachu he found both Pikachu and his Thunder Stone missing, causing him to think Pikachu may had evolved into Raichu. However, he soon found Pikachu training in the forest, trying to get stronger without evolving.
After some hard training, Ash and Pikachu re-challenged Sho and Raichu. Raichu started off using Iron Tail, but Pikachu managed to constantly dodge its attacks by circling around. However, Raichu eventually managed to hit Pikachu and threw him in the air. While he was heading down Pikachu used Iron Tail to counter Raichu's Volt Tackle. Raichu then went for another Volt Tackle, but Pikachu dodged it by spinning. Pikachu then circled around again to avoid Raichu's Iron Tail attacks, causing Raichu to lose its footing. This gave Pikachu the opportunity to hit it hard with a Quick Attack. Pikachu then proceeded to dodge Raichu's attacks and immediately after hit it with its own moves, dealing much damage. Raichu, however, was still standing and managed to trap Pikachu with its tail again, while charging Hyper Beam. As Hyper Beam was launched, Pikachu used Thunderbolt to block Hyper Beam, decreasing its power. As Raichu had to recharge, Pikachu proceeded to hit Raichu with a Volt Tackle-Iron Tail combination, dealing major damage. Pikachu and Raichu then clashed with Volt Tackle, proving to be equal in power. Pikachu then avoided Raichu's Iron Tail and flung it into a tree using Iron Tail. Raichu then tried trapping Pikachu again while using Hyper Beam, but Pikachu dodged its tail and used Hyper Beam's power to jump high in the air. Pikachu then headed down using a spinning Iron Tail and finally knocked Raichu out, proving he had once again made the right decision not to evolve.
In A Crasher Course in Power!, Pikachu and Buizel got into a fight after Buizel got accidentally hit by Pikachu's Thunderbolt while training. Later, Pikachu was the first Pokémon used in Ash's Pastoria Gym battle. He went up against Crasher Wake's Gyarados. Pikachu used Thunderbolt and scored a direct hit on Gyarados, but despite the super-effective attack, Gyarados was unharmed. Gyarados used Dragon Rage, but Pikachu blocked it with Iron Tail and used the strike to jump above Gyarados. Gyarados charged in with Bite, but Pikachu, while still in mid-air, used Volt Tackle, hitting Gyarados to the face and knocking it out. He was recalled after Crasher Wake sent out Quagsire. Later, after Buizel was recalled, Pikachu went up again against Floatzel. He used Thunderbolt, but Floatzel countered with Whirlpool. The collision caused electrified water droplets to fall on Buizel, curing his confusion. Pikachu used Volt Tackle, but Floatzel overpowered it and damaged him with Razor Wind. Pikachu then got hit by Ice Fang, causing a part of his back to get frozen. Pikachu was then recalled after Buizel wanted to fight again. As they passed each other they exchanged high-fives and Buizel broke the ice on Pikachu's back with Water Gun, settling their quarrel.

Pikachu in the Hearthome Collection
In Arriving in Style!, Pikachu was used in the Hearthome Collection, a fashion show for Stylists and their Pokémon whose winner would get the chance to work on a photo shoot for the Poké Chic magazine. At first, Pikachu was shy to go on stage wearing the outfit Ash had designed for him, but after hearing some encouraging words from Ash, he overcame his moment of shyness and went on stage to perform. He used his Thunderbolt attack to light up the hall, captivating the judges' attention. Hermione commented that, although Ash didn't quite get it what it means to be a Pokémon Stylist, he was at least making an effort to show off his Pokémon, instead of focusing solely on the clothing aspect. For this reason, Pikachu was among the three finalists, along with Dawn's Buneary and Cocoa's Mismagius. When the results were announced, it was revealed that Ash and Pikachu ended up in third place, receiving the Unique Award for their original costumes and performance.
In Playing The Leveling Field!, Pikachu was used in an unofficial battle against the Hearthome City Gym Leader Fantina. Pikachu faced her Drifloon, who had already defeated Buizel and put Chimchar to sleep. After getting hit by Will-O-Wisp, Pikachu hit Drifloon with a super-effective Thunderbolt. He then used Volt Tackle, but Drifloon countered with Ominous Wind, stopping Pikachu and blowing him back. He then managed to hit Drifloon with another Thunderbolt, but this triggered Drifloon to evolve into Drifblim. Drifblim managed to dodge Pikachu's Thunderbolt and followed up with Hypnosis, putting him to sleep. With two of his Pokémon sleeping Ash decided to forfeit the match.
In Barry's Busting Out All Over!, Ash used Pikachu as his final Pokémon in a three-on-three battle against Barry, where he faced Barry's Empoleon. Ash ordered Pikachu to use Thunderbolt, but Pikachu was forced to dodge Empoleon's Hydro Cannon. Empoleon then used Steel Wing, which clashed with Pikachu's Iron Tail. While continuously exchanging Steel Wings and Iron Tails, Pikachu eventually got hit, knocking him back. While struggling to get back up, Empoleon fired a Hyper Beam at Pikachu, launching him in the air. When it seemed to be over, Ash's words of encouragement managed to get through and Pikachu was able to hit Empoleon with a super-effective Thunderbolt. He then hit Empoleon with a powerful Volt Tackle, knocking it out.
In Shield with a Twist!, Pikachu was Ash's third Pokémon in his Hearthome Gym battle. He went up against Fantina's Drifblim. Pikachu used a Thunderbolt Counter Shield, hurting Drifblim as well as paralyzing it. Drifblim, however, immediately blew the electricity away with Psychic. Drifblim then used a combination of Will-O-Wisp and Psychic to create a Counter Shield of its own. Pikachu used Counter Shield again, but it was overwhelmed as Drifblim's lasted longer due to it being supported by Psychic. Drifblim's Counter Shield then surrounded Pikachu, causing him to be unable to use Thunderbolt. Drifblim then proceeded to hit Pikachu with Hypnosis, putting him to sleep, and finished him off with Ominous Wind.
In To Thine Own Pokémon Be True!, Pikachu was Ash's partner in a Pokémon Ping Pong Tournament. In the first round they faced Wilkinson and his Farfetch'd. Despite putting up a good match, Ash and Pikachu got eliminated.
In Evolving Strategies!, Pikachu was Ash's fifth Pokémon used in his Full Battle against Paul. First, he went up against Magmortar. Pikachu managed to hit Magmortar with Quick Attack. However, upon making contact, he was burned by Magmortar's Flame Body. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt, which was countered by Magmortar's Flamethrower. He then went for Volt Tackle, which was countered by Magmortar's Rock Tomb. Despite managing to push through and destroy multiple rocks, Pikachu was eventually thrown back after crashing in one of the rocks and got immediately after damaged by his burn. Magmortar then used Smog, but Pikachu blocked it using his Thunderbolt Counter Shield. After taking more burn damage, Pikachu dodged Magmortar's Flamethrower and struck Magmortar with an Iron Tail, only to take burn damage again after. He was then recalled.

Static activated
Later, he went up against Paul's very powerful Ursaring. Pikachu hit Ursaring with Quick Attack, but the Hibernator Pokémon managed to take it and hit Pikachu hard with Hammer Arm. The physical contact activated Pikachu's Static, paralyzing Ursaring, giving Pikachu the opportunity to hit it with Iron Tail. The paralysis, however, activated Ursaring's Guts Ability, greatly increasing Ursaring's Attack. Pikachu tried stopping Ursaring with Thunderbolt, but it managed to push through and slammed him into Lake Acuity with an extremely powerful Hammer Arm, taking him out of the match as well as injuring him. This defeat meant that Ash had to defeat Paul's remaining five Pokémon with only Chimchar.
In Historical Mystery Tour!, Pikachu was used in a battle against Barry's Heracross. Pikachu started off using Quick Attack, but Heracross endured the hit and hit him with Horn Attack. Their battle was stopped, when Barry saw a Xatu flying and decided to follow it.
In the following episode, Pikachu was used in the Twinleaf Festival Battle Challenge, where he was seen defeating a Feraligatr with Thunderbolt. In the final round Pikachu battled against Barry's Empoleon and managed to win, giving Ash the opportunity to battle Tower Tycoon Palmer.
In A Marathon Rivalry!, Ash used Pikachu in the Hurdle Dash event of a Pokéathlon held in Camellia Town. Pikachu and Daniel's Snorlax quickly managed to take the lead and after racing neck-to-neck with Snorlax, Snorlax's large belly passed the finish line first. This meant Daniel had won the Pokéathlon with Ash ending up in second place.
Later, in Flint Sparks the Fire!, Pikachu was used in a battle against Sinnoh Elite Four member Flint. He faced Flint's Infernape, who had already defeated Ash's Buizel and his Infernape. Pikachu first used Quick Attack, but Infernape simply took the attack and used Flare Blitz. Pikachu countered with Volt Tackle, causing an explosion. Infernape and Pikachu then clashed with Mach Punch and Iron Tail, but Infernape overpowered Pikachu sending him flying into a wall. Infernape then hit Pikachu hard with Close Combat and slammed him down to the ground. Before hitting the ground, Pikachu still managed to hit Infernape with Thunderbolt. Infernape then headed downwards using Flare Blitz, being unable to dodge Pikachu was hit hard by the Fire-type move. Pikachu, however, still didn't give up and used Quick Attack. Infernape took the attack again and used this chance to knock him back with Close Combat. Pikachu then used Thunderbolt, but Infernape countered with Flare Blitz, breaking through the attack and hitting him hard. Pikachu and Infernape then clashed with Volt Tackle and Mach Punch, causing an explosion, knocking Pikachu to the ground. As Pikachu went for one more Volt Tackle, Infernape countered with Thunder Punch, causing another explosion. As the smoke cleared both Pokémon were still standing, but eventually Pikachu fell down, giving Flint the win.
In The Eighth Wonder of the Sinnoh World!, Pikachu battled against Volkner's Electivire. Pikachu first launched a Quick Attack, which Electivire dodged. Electivire then launched a Fire Punch and Ice Punch, both of which were dodged. After dodging these attacks Pikachu had hit Electivire with two Thunderbolts, which Electivire absorbed due to its Ability Motor Drive, increasing its Speed. Due to its increased Speed, it dodged Iron Tail with ease and managed to hit Pikachu with Fire Punch. Electivire then hit Pikachu with Ice Punch, which activated Pikachu's Static, paralyzing Electivire as well as slowing it down. Due to Electivire's paralysis, Pikachu was able to dodge an Ice Punch and countered another one with Iron Tail. As Electivire went for another Ice Punch, Pikachu managed to outspeed the Thunderbolt Pokémon and defeat it with Iron Tail. Pikachu was then recalled. He later went up against Volkern's Luxray. His Quick Attack was stopped by Shock Wave, knocking him back. Pikachu then launched three successful Iron Tails but the fourth was countered by Thunder Fang, which overpowered Pikachu. He was then knocked out by Luxray's Shock Wave.
In the Lily of the Valley Conference, Ash used Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his battle against Paul in Familiarity Breeds Strategy!. He was used against Paul's Aggron. First he and Aggron clashed with Iron Tail and Metal Claw, proving to be equal in power. Aggron then countered with Metal Sound, hurting Pikachu's ears. Pikachu managed to stop Aggron with Thunderbolt and headed forwards using Volt Tackle. This attack, however, was stopped by Aggron's Flash Cannon, dealing much damage. Pikachu was then recalled in place of Infernape. Later Pikachu was used again in Ash's battle against Paul, this time facing Paul's Froslass. Froslass started off using Hail, activating her Snow Cloak Ability, making it hard to keep track of Froslass's movements. As Pikachu kept getting attacked by his opponent, he tried countering with Thunderbolt. The falling hail, however, protected Froslass from Thunderbolt, giving Froslass the chance to hit Pikachu hard with an Ice Shard. Pikachu then tried attacking with Volt Tackle, only to be easily dodged by the Snow Land Pokémon. As Froslass went for another Ice Shard to finish Pikachu off, Pikachu managed to avoid it by jumping and hit Froslass with a super-effective Iron Tail. Due to the large amount of damage Froslass had taken, the hail disappeared. Froslass then went for an Ice Beam, freezing Pikachu. As Froslass was about to finish Pikachu off with Ice Shard, Pikachu managed to thaw out with Volt Tackle and knocked the Snow Land Pokémon out. This gave Pikachu his first win against one of Paul's Pokémon and also gave Ash the lead in the battle. He was then once again recalled. During the continuation of their battle, Ash sent Pikachu out to battle Paul's Electivire. Electivire started off by using Thunder on the battle field, launching rocks at Pikachu. Pikachu, however, managed to maneuver through the rocks with Quick Attack and strike Electivire with a direct hit on the head. Electivire, however, quickly recovered and grabbed Pikachu with its tails. As Pikachu tried using Iron Tail, Electivire smacked him to the ground. Using these movements however, Pikachu managed to escape from Electivire's grip. Pikachu and Electivire then clashed with Quick Attack and Brick Break, pushing both Pokémon back. Pikachu then went for Volt Tackle. Electivire blocked the attack, activating its Motor Drive Ability. It then went for a speedy Thunder Punch, but this was countered by Pikachu's Iron Tail. Both attacks, however, proved to be equal in power making Pikachu unable to move. This gave Electivire the opportunity to use Brick Break with its other arm, knocking Pikachu out.
In The Semi-Final Frontier!, Pikachu was the last Pokémon chosen by Ash to battle Tobias in the semi-finals of the Lily of the Valley Conference. Despite Ash losing five of his Pokémon, Pikachu tried his best to defeat Tobias's Latios. In the beginning almost none of his attacks hit or did any damage to Latios and his attacks got easily overwhelmed by Latios's powerful attacks. However, Pikachu finally managed to jump on top of Latios and used Thunderbolt to severely damage Latios. Latios then used Light Screen, reducing the damage caused by Thunderbolt. Despite this Pikachu kept using Thunderbolt until he was shaken off. As Pikachu was about to land, Latios used Luster Purge. Pikachu used Volt Tackle and Iron Tail, taking against the force of the Luster Purge, causing a massive explosion. In the end, however, both he and Latios fainted. As Ash's last Pokémon had fainted, Tobias was crowned the winner of their battle, placing Ash in the Top 4 of the Lily of the Valley Conference.
In Memories are Made of Bliss!, Pikachu helped search for Piplup, when he had run away. Upon finding Piplup, both Pokémon broke down in tears, since they soon had to say goodbye to each other. Then Team Rocket appeared, but Pikachu and Piplup managed to blast them off with a Volt Tackle and Hydro Pump combination. Later, Pikachu said goodbye to Dawn and Piplup, before he, Ash and Brock boarded the ship heading to Kanto. Upon arriving in Kanto, Pikachu and Ash finally bade farewell to Brock too and the two continued on towards Pallet Town.
Best Wishes series
Unova
Ash decided to just bring Pikachu to Unova with him, just as he did in Hoenn. In In The Shadow of Zekrom!, Pikachu joined Ash, Delia and Professor Oak on a trip to the Unova region. Upon arriving in Unova, Pikachu had an encounter with Zekrom, which unaware by Ash, caused him to lose his ability to use Electric-type moves. Ash finally noticed this during his battle against Trip and his Snivy. After scoring a direct hit with Quick Attack and avoiding Snivy's Tackle, Pikachu tried to use Thunderbolt, but was unable to and got hit by a Tackle. Unable to use Thunderbolt again, he went for Volt Tackle, but failed to use this move as well, wearing Pikachu out greatly. Noticing Pikachu's inability of using Electric-type moves, Ash ordered Pikachu to use Iron Tail. This attack, however, was dodged by Snivy, who then proceeded to defeat the exhausted Pikachu with Leaf Tornado. In the next episode, Pikachu recovered his Electric-type moves.
In Triple Leaders, Team Threats!, Ash used Pikachu in his second battle at the Striaton Gym, where he faced Cress and his Panpour. Pikachu's Quick Attack was countered with Double Team, he was then hit by Scratch. After dodging Water Gun, Pikachu tried to use Thunderbolt, but Panpour aimed Water Gun at his feet, causing him to slip. He was then attacked by multiple Water Gun and Scratch attacks. Pikachu got up and attempted to use Volt Tackle, but this was stopped with Mud Sport. Panpour then finished him off with a Water Gun.
In A Rival Battle for Club Champ!, he battled Trip's Tranquill, who had already taken out Ash's Oshawott and Tepig. After his Thunderbolt was dodged, Pikachu took a beating from multiple Work Up-boosted Aerial Aces. As Pikachu was about to be finished off, he managed to grab Tranquill's foot. He then threw Tranquill in the air and defeated it with Volt Tackle. He then battled Snivy again, who had evolved into Servine. Pikachu first used Iron Tail, which collided with Servine's Cut, but was then hit by Servine's Leaf Tornado. Pikachu stood up and went for Volt Tackle. Servine, however, managed to strike the running Pikachu with Cut, knocking him out.
In Minccino—Neat and Tidy!, Pikachu was used in a battle against Bianca and her Pignite. As Pikachu headed forwards he got hit by Pignite's Take Down, followed up by a powerful Heat Crash. Pikachu managed to get up and countered Pignite's Flame Charge with Volt Tackle. After both Pokémon got blown back by the collision, only Pikachu remained standing, giving Ash the win.
In Dancing With the Ducklett Trio!, a trio of troublemaking Ducklett stole Ash's hat and Sandile's sunglasses. Pikachu assisted Sandile in defeating them. After unintentionally shocking himself with Thunderbolt, because he was stuck in a beach umbrella, Pikachu couldn't use Electric-type attacks. Eventually his anger caused him to learn Electro Ball and blasted the Ducklett off with his new move as well as recovering his ability to use Electric-type moves. Later on, he battled against the Sunglasses Sandile. Pikachu got hit by Stone Edge, but immediately countered with Quick Attack. As Pikachu used Iron Tail, Sandile used Dig to avoid getting hit and hit Pikachu hard. Sandile then used another Dig, hitting Pikachu again. As Pikachu had trouble getting up, Sandile suddenly evolved into Krokorok. Krokorok then went for Stone Edge, but Pikachu used Electro Ball to deflect Stone Edge back at Krokorok, defeating it and blasting it off.
In Battling For The Love of Bug-Types!, Ash used Pikachu as his last Pokémon in his Castelia Gym battle, where he went up against Burgh's Leavanny. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, which was dodged. He then used Iron Tail, but this was blocked by Leavanny's Protect. Leavanny's Leaf Storm was countered by Pikachu's Thunderbolt, but it then used String Shot on Pikachu, binding him, making him unable to dodge Leaf Storm and causing him to lose his balance. Unable to break free from the strings he was hit by Leaf Storm again. He then tried a Thunderbolt but missed due to his loss of balance. He was then hit by a powerful Hyper Beam, but refused to give up. When Leavanny used Leaf Storm, Pikachu spun and charged into the Leaf Storm, cutting the threads. Pikachu then dodged Leavanny's String Shot's with Quick Attack. After countering another String Shot with Thunderbolt, he hit Leavanny with Iron Tail and finished the Nurturing Pokémon off with Electro Ball, earning Ash the Insect Badge.
In Club Battle Finale: A Hero's Outcome!, Ash used Pikachu in the final round of the Club Battle against Iris. Pikachu went up against Iris's Excadrill. Ash had Pikachu start off with an ineffective Thunderbolt to show they were getting serious. Pikachu and Excadrill then collided with Quick Attack and Drill Run, but Excadrill immediately turned and grabbed Pikachu's tail. He then threw Pikachu in the air and hit him hard with Metal Claw. Pikachu then went for Iron Tail. Excadrill tried countering with Metal Claw, but Pikachu managed to dodge it and hit him hard. After a collision between Pikachu's Electro Ball and Excadrill's Focus Blast, Excadrill used Dig to hit Pikachu from beneath, launching him in the air spinning. Pikachu, however, kept spinning and used this to hit Excadrill with an extra powerful Iron Tail. Pikachu then went for Iron Tail, but got overpowered by Drill Run. He then barely dodged a Dig, but was then unable to dodge Excadrill's Focus Blast, knocking him out, making Iris the winner of the tournament.
In Dazzling the Nimbasa Gym!, when Ash was in doubt for what Pokémon he should use after his two Pokémon were defeated in his Gym battle against Elesa, Pikachu shocked Ash to convince him to use him. He went up against Elesa's powerful Emolga. After both Pokémon's Electro Balls collided, Pikachu defeated the Sky Squirrel Pokémon with a single Quick Attack. Pikachu then faced Elesa's Tynamo. Despite her not looking very strong, Tynamo proved to be a tough opponent, using speedy and strong Tackles to hit Pikachu hard. Tynamo managed to slam Pikachu into the ground. While stuck in the ground he was unable to defend himself against Tynamo's countless Tackles. Pikachu eventually managed to break free and started using Thunderbolt on the battle field. The now rocky field forced Tynamo to face Pikachu head on only. Tynamo then dashed forwards using Tackle. Pikachu had Tynamo come close and then launched a powerful Iron Tail, defeating her thus winning Ash the Bolt Badge.
In Ash Versus the Champion!, Pikachu was used in a battle against the Unova League Champion Alder, where he faced his Bouffalant. Pikachu hit Bouffalant with all his attacks, but it absorbed the hits with its afro. Alder, however, didn't give any orders, causing Bouffalant to get angry. It was then revealed Alder was sleeping. After he was woken up, Alder ordered Bouffalant to use Head Charge, but Bouffalant still angry at him used the attack on him instead. The battle was then called off.
In Stopping the Rage of Legends! Part 1, Pikachu teamed up with Cilan's Stunfisk to battle Tornadus and Thundurus. Stunfisk used its amazing jumping ability to get them both into the air so that they could launch a Thunderbolt—Thunder Shock combination at the two legendary Pokémon. Later, in Stopping the Rage of Legends! Part 2, Pikachu helped rescue the Forces of Nature from Team Rocket.
In An Amazing Aerial Battle!, Ash used Pikachu against Skyla's Unfezant in his Mistralton Gym battle. After dodging Pikachu's Electro Ball, Unfezant used Air Slash, which managed to hit Pikachu. As Unfezant then headed towards Pikachu using Aerial Ace, Pikachu lured him in to hit him hard with Iron Tail. Unfezant was then finished off by Electro Ball. Pikachu stayed in the battle to fight Skyla's last Pokémon, Swanna. Despite Swanna major Electric weakness, Pikachu's Electric-type moves proved to be useless, as Swanna used Aqua Ring to protect itself against them. Pikachu then used Iron Tail, but Swanna ascended and dodged the attack. Ash then had the idea to have Pikachu jump on the rings above the battle field, while using Quick Attack, to get close to Swanna and managed to hit the White Bird Pokémon hard. Swanna, however, quickly recovered and hit Pikachu with Bubble Beam, knocking him to the ground. Pikachu was then hit by a powerful Hurricane and got finished off by a brutal Brave Bird.
In Climbing the Tower of Success!, Ash and Pikachu entered the Wishing Bell Festival. By working together they managed to reach the final round, where they had to climb Mistralton Tower while protecting the flame of their Litwick candle. Despite Pikachu doing his best to protect the candle from a bunch of Pidove's attacks, Stephan's Litwick 'candle' blew out Ash's candle, causing Ash to end up in second place.
In Rocking the Virbank Gym! Part 2, Ash chose Pikachu as his final Pokémon in his Gym battle with Roxie. He faced Roxie's strongest Pokémon, Garbodor, who had already beaten Ash's Pignite and Palpitoad. Garbodor started off using Double Slap, but Pikachu used his swift movements to dodge Garbodor's long arms, causing them to tangle up. Pikachu used this opportunity to hit Garbodor hard with Quick Attack. Garbodor then attacked by swinging its arms at Pikachu, but he managed to dodge again and shocked the Trash Heap Pokémon with a powerful Thunderbolt. As Pikachu went for an Iron Tail, Garbodor knocked him back with its arms and followed up with several Gunk Shots. Cornered by these attacks, Pikachu got caught by Garbodor's arms and was then hit by a series of Double Slaps. He was then hit by Gunk Shot, poisoning him. Roxie then ordered Garbodor to finish Pikachu off with Venoshock, but due to all the physical contact Pikachu had made with Garbodor, Pikachu's Static Ability had activated, paralyzing Garbodor. Pikachu used this opportunity to hit Garbodor with Thunderbolt, but it was able to withstand it and used Venoshock. Pikachu, however, overpowered the attack with Electro Ball and hit Garbodor, knocking it out, making Ash victorious and earning him his eighth and final Unova Badge, the Toxic Badge, thus allowing him to enter the Unova League.
In Goodbye, Junior Cup - Hello Adventure!, Pikachu was used in one final battle against Dawn, before she headed to Johto. He faced her Quilava. Pikachu used Quick Attack, taking hits from Quilava's Swift, before his attack was dodged. Quilava then used Flame Wheel, which he dodged in time. Pikachu fired off an Electro Ball, which collided with Quilava's Flamethrower. Quilava then used Smokescreen, but Pikachu's Thunderbolt pierced through the smoke and he then attacked with Iron Tail. Quilava, however, countered with Flamethrower, overpowering Pikachu. Both Pokémon kept exchanging attacks, with Quilava's Swift being deflected by Pikachu's Iron Tail and a collision between Thunderbolt and Flamethrower. Pikachu and Quilava collided once more, with Quick Attack and Flame Wheel, knocking both Pokémon back. The battle was then called off by Cynthia.
In Meloetta and the Undersea Temple!, Ash and Pikachu battled Giovanni and his Persian, trying to protect Meloetta. Pikachu outsped Persian's Shadow Claw and scored a hit with Iron Tail. Persian, however, immediately followed up with Power Gem, defeating Pikachu. Giovanni then successfully captured Meloetta, and took it, along with the imprisoned Ash and Pikachu, to the Abyssal Ruins. In the next episode, Pikachu managed to break Team Rocket's force field prison by striking it repeatedly with Iron Tail, freeing both Ash and himself. Later, during the battle against the mind-controlled Therian Forme Forces of Nature, as Thundurus aimed a Thunder attack at Iris's Dragonite and Iris stepped in its way to protect her Pokémon, Pikachu jumped in, and absorbed the massive blast of electricity himself. This gave Pikachu a tremendous power boost, as seen later, when Ash told Pikachu to use Electro Ball on Team Rocket. The supercharged attack grew into amazingly massive proportions, inflicting notable damage on the Abyssal Ruins, sending Team Rocket flying, and freeing Meloetta.
In Curtain Up, Unova League!, Ash used Pikachu in the preliminary round of the Vertress Conference against Trip's Serperior. Pikachu's attacks were easily dodged by Serperior, while the Regal Pokémon scored a direct on Pikachu with Dragon Tail. In Mission: Defeat Your Rival!, Pikachu continued his battle with Serperior. Pikachu managed to stand up, but got immediately hit by an Energy Ball. Pikachu then managed to dodge a Dragon Tail, but got hit by another one. Serperior then proceeded to grab Pikachu with Wrap. While in Serperior's grasp, Pikachu hit him with Thunderbolt, but Trip quickly had Serperior anchor his tail in the ground, conducting the electricity to the ground, preventing damage. Serperior then tightened his grip, causing Pikachu to lose consciousness. When Serperior was about to finish Pikachu off by slamming him to the ground, Pikachu was awoken by Ash's voice and managed to escape from Serperior's grip by using Iron Tail on the ground. Pikachu's Iron Tail was then countered and overpowered by Serperior's Dragon Tail. Pikachu, however, still didn't give in and used an Electro Ball-Iron Tail combination, which clashed with Dragon Tail, causing a huge explosion. After the smoke cleared only Pikachu remained standing, giving Ash the win as well as his first win against Trip.
In Cameron's Secret Weapon!, Ash used Pikachu against Cameron's Samurott. Samurott blocked Pikachu's Thunderbolt with Razor Shell. Pikachu then went for Quick Attack, but he was overwhelmed by Samurott's Razor Shell and was then hit by a powerful Hydro Cannon. Pikachu then dodged a Megahorn and used Quick Attack. He managed to dodge Razor Shell and hit Samurott hard with Quick Attack, followed up by a powerful Iron Tail. Samurott then blocked an Electro Ball with Razor Shell, but Pikachu immediately followed up with Iron Tail, defeating the Formidable Pokémon. Pikachu stayed in to battle Cameron's Swanna. Swanna started off using a series of Pluck attacks, which were all dodged by Pikachu. Pikachu then used Quick Attack, but Swanna avoided the attack and struck him with Wing Attack. Swanna then went for Bubble Beam, but this was dodged by Pikachu. Swanna then dove towards Pikachu using Wing Attack, but he dodged again and launched a super-effective Electro Ball at the White Bird Pokémon, knocking it out. Pikachu was then recalled. Later during the battle, Ash sent Pikachu out to face Cameron's newly evolved Lucario, which had just defeated Snivy, leaving him as Ash's last Pokémon. Pikachu started off by repeatedly using Quick attack, each time scoring a direct hit. He then tried to finish Lucario off with Iron Tail, but Lucario quickly dodged. Lucario then jumped towards Pikachu and hit him hard with Force Palm. Pikachu's Electro Ball then collided with Lucario's Aura Sphere, blowing both Pokémon back. Pikachu then managed to avoid Force Palm, but Lucario chased after him and threw him in the air using Circle Throw. Pikachu, however, managed to land on his feet and struck Lucario with a powerful Thunderbolt, followed up by a Quick Attack. He then went for Iron Tail, but Lucario used Copycat to counter his attack, causing a big explosion. Despite the large amount of damage both Pokémon had taken, they still managed to stand up. At the end of the climactic fight, Pikachu and Lucario fired blasts of Electro Ball and Aura Sphere. Aura Sphere, however, overpowered Electro Ball, knocking Pikachu out, and thus eliminating Ash from the Vertress Conference, placing him in Top 8.
In Team Plasma's Pokémon Power Plot, Pikachu battled wild Pokémon, controlled by Colress, trying to free them and stop Team Plasma. Impressed by Pikachu's power, Colress managed to gain control over Pikachu by attaching a receiver to his head and ordered him to attack Ash and the group. As Colress was increasing the power of the EM waves, Ash begged Pikachu to fight the control. Fighting against the control, the receiver overloaded and got destroyed, freeing Pikachu from Team Plasma's control.
In Team Plasma and the Awakening Ceremony!, Pikachu along with Ash's other Pokémon fought against Team Plasma's Pokémon in order to prevent them from awakening Reshiram. Colress, however, then activated his improved mind-control machine and managed to hit Pikachu with the machine's laser, controlling him again. This time however, Ash's voice didn't manage to get through Pikachu's control and he was knocked unconscious by Pikachu's Thunderbolt. N then offered to give Team Plasma the Light Stone in exchange for them freeing Pikachu from their control, to which they agreed. In the next episode, Pikachu tried to destroy Colress's machine to free Reshiram and all the other Pokémon from Ghetsis's control. However, he was ultimately hit by the laser, which put him under control once again. To everyone's surprise, Pikachu managed to resist the machine's influence, using his own electricity to fight Ghetsis's control, and used Thunderbolt on Reshiram in an attempt to help it escape from Ghetsis's control as well. Despite Colress increasing the machine's power, Pikachu kept resisting and together with Reshiram destroyed the machine with Electro Ball and Fusion Flare, freeing all Pokémon from Team Plasma's control, thus defeating the team.
Decolore Islands

Pikachu reuniting with Bulbasaur
In Cilan and the Case of the Purrloin Witness!, Pikachu participated in the Marine Cup Tournament. He managed to beat other Trainers with a Gurdurr and an Eelektrik and make it to the finals. He battled against Teaque's Galvantula. After a tough battle, Pikachu was able to knock out Galvantula with Iron Tail, winning the tournament for Ash.
In Best Wishes Until We Meet Again!, Pikachu, along with Axew was captured by Team Rocket, while Ash, Iris and Cilan were trapped inside the ship's cargo space. He was eventually freed out of the net and together with Axew using Dragon Rage, Charizard using Flamethrower and Pansage using Solar Beam, Pikachu used Thunderbolt to blast Team Rocket off. Later, Pikachu said farewell to Axew, Iris and Cilan as he, Ash and Alexa continued on to Pallet Town.
Pikachu was reunited with Bulbasaur and the entire Unova team at Professor Oak's Laboratory in The Dream Continues!. He joined the others in a group attack on Team Rocket with his Thunderbolt to send them blasting off for the last time in the Best Wishes series. Pikachu then continued to travel with Ash when he set off for the Kalos region.
XY series
In Kalos, Where Dreams and Adventures Begin!, Ash and Pikachu arrived in Kalos by plane along with Alexa. After being thrown out of the Lumiose Gym for not having enough Gym Badges, Ash was saved by Clemont while Pikachu was saved by Bonnie. Bonnie was excited to be holding Pikachu, leading to him shocking her because she was holding him too tightly. After becoming acquainted with their rescuers, Ash challenged Clemont to a battle, which Clemont reluctantly agreed to.

Ash and Pikachu
In the battle, Pikachu faced Clemont's Bunnelby. Despite Clemont admitting that he only recently caught Bunnelby, he proved to be quite a challenge for Pikachu. Pikachu's Thunderbolt was blocked by Bunnelby, who used his ears to create a mud shield. Bunnelby then used Dig. Pikachu tried to confuse Bunnelby with his speedy movements, but the Digging Pokémon was able to hit him. Pikachu then scored a direct hit with Quick Attack, which Bunnelby quickly recovered from. Bunnelby then used Double Slap, hitting him several times before knocking him back. Pikachu then used Iron Tail which Bunnelby easily caught with his ears. Now, however, Bunnelby was unable to use his ears, giving Pikachu the opportunity to hit the Digging Pokémon with Electro Ball. The battle was then interrupted by Team Rocket, who once again attempted to steal Pikachu for their plans. Ash attempted to stop them, but Jessie had her Wobbuffet reflect Pikachu's attacks with Mirror Coat. Pikachu was saved by a Froakie, who shielded Pikachu with its body at the cost of being injured. With Bunnelby and Froakie's help, Pikachu was used to blast off the villains. Froakie soon collapsed from its injuries, so Ash, Pikachu, and their new friends went to Professor Sycamore to heal Froakie back to health.
In Lumiose City Pursuit!, Ash and Pikachu managed to get Froakie to Professor Sycamore so that he could be healed. When Professor Sycamore's Garchomp went crazy from one of Team Rocket's devices, Pikachu and Ash pursued her to get the device off and free her. After chasing her to the top of Prism Tower, Pikachu removed the device from Garchomp's neck with Iron Tail. However, due to the fight damaging the tower, the ground Pikachu was standing on broke off, causing him to fall off with Ash immediately leaping in to save his best friend, to the shock of many including Serena. They were both saved by a Mega Blaziken, who intercepted them in the air and put the two safely back onto the ground.
In A Blustery Santalune Gym Battle!, Pikachu was the first Pokémon Ash used during his Santalune Gym battle with Viola, sending him out to face her Surskit. Despite the type-advantage, Surskit proved to be a tough opponenent, using its speedy movements to dodge Pikachu's attacks. Pikachu's Quick Attack was blocked by Protect and his Iron Tail was dodged. After blocking Pikachu's Electro Ball with Ice Beam, it used Ice Beam on the field, freezing it. While Pikachu slipped on the ice, Surskit was able to skate on it. Although Pikachu did get a successful hit with Iron Tail, his Thunderbolt was overpowered by Ice Beam and he was then knocked out by Signal Beam. After he was healed at the Pokémon Center, he trained with Fletchling for their rematch by using Alexa's Noivern's Gust to help them withstand Vivillon's Gust, who beat Fletchling in the first battle.
In Battling on Thin Ice!, continuing his training along with Fletchling, they were able to withstand Noivern's Gust well. Later, using one of Clemont's inventions, they practiced to avoid Surskit's Sticky Web. After it broke, they used Froakie and its Frubbles instead to practice. The next day, Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon for his Gym Battle rematch against Viola, where he again went up against her Surskit. Using his training he was able to dodge Sticky Web, and after having his Thunderbolt blocked by Surskit's Protect and dodging its Signal Beam, he was able to hit Surskit with Iron Tail. Afterwards, Pikachu tried to stop Surskit from using Ice Beam on the field by climbing on it and using Thunderbolt, but Surskit was able to shake him off and managed to create the ice field as well as freezing the area. This time, however, using his tail, Pikachu was able to stabilize himself on the ice field. His Thunderbolt then overpowered Surskit's Signal Beam, defeating the Pond Skater Pokémon. Ash recalled Pikachu and substituted him for Fletchling. He was later called out again to battle Vivillon, who had beaten Fletchling. Vivillon attacked with Gust, but as Pikachu was still damaged from battling Surskit, he wasn't able to withstand attack. As Vivillon went for another Gust, Ash had Pikachu use Iron Tail to anchor himself to the ice field to withstand the attack. Vivillon then used Solar Beam, which was countered with Thunderbolt. In his current position, however, Pikachu was left vulnerable to Vivillon's Sleep Powder and got hit. While he was struggling to stay awake, Vivillon charged its Solar Beam. Thinking back to their training, Ash had Pikachu use Electro Ball on himself to repel Sleep Powder, thus keeping him awake. Vivillon then launched the Solar Beam, but Pikachu was able to overpower it with Electro Ball, causing Vivillon to crash into the lamps which were frozen by Surskit's Ice Beam misfire, freezing its wing. This allowed Pikachu to defeat the Scale Pokémon with Thunderbolt, earning Ash the Bug Badge.

Pikachu hypnotized by Malamar
In A Conspiracy to Conquer!, after overhearing one of Team Rocket's conversations, Madame X and her Malamar captured Pikachu. After Clemont attempted to use his "Automatic Pikachu Retrieving Device" to find Pikachu, it was revealed that Malamar had hypnotized Pikachu, making him one of Madame X's subordinates. While searching for Pikachu, Clemont, Bonnie, and Serena were also hypnotized by Malamar. Once Ash and Meowth finally found Pikachu, Team Rocket, and Madame X, Madame X forced Pikachu to attack Ash. Ash attempted to get through to Pikachu, which works and Pikachu starts to fight Malamar control. Pikachu electricity did get the Automatic Pikachu Retrieving Device to bursted in and rammed into Malamar, causing it to lose its control over everyone. After Malamar revealed his plans through Meowth, Pikachu attempted to attack it, but Malamar managed to escape.
In Climbing the Walls!, Ash used Pikachu as his third and final Pokémon in his Cyllage Gym battle against Grant. He went up against his Tyrunt. Pikachu was at a type-disadvantage since Tyrunt was part Dragon-type. Pikachu used Quick Attack and jumped to attack from above to avoid Crunch and hit Tyrunt. Tyrunt then used its signature Draco Meteor, but Pikachu dodged and struck it with a super-effective Iron Tail. As the meteor shower from Draco Meteor rained down, Pikachu used Iron Tail to jump on the meteors and perform the Draco Meteor Climb, which was based on the Rock Tomb Climb Froakie previously used. Tyrunt then used its jumping abilities to jump high and use Dragon Tail and clashed with Pikachu's Iron Tail. Grant then had Tyrunt use his favorite move, Rock Tomb, but Pikachu deflected the projectiles with Iron Tail, knocking one into Tyrunt's mouth. While Tyrunt was now unable to use Crunch, Pikachu had the opportunity to move close and finish with Ash's favorite move, Thunderbolt, defeating Tyrunt, winning the battle and earning Ash the Cliff Badge.
In The Bonds of Evolution!, Pikachu was used in the Ash's battle against Diantha, the Kalos League Champion, where he faced her Gardevoir. Gardevoir managed to dodge all of Pikachu's attacks and hit him hard with a Shadow Ball. The battle was then interrupted by Team Rocket.
In Mega Revelations!, Pikachu battled against Korrina's Lucario. Pikachu's Quick Attack was easily taken by Lucario and his Iron Tail was blocked. Lucario used its great speed to dodge an Iron Tail and then raised its Attack using Swords Dance. Pikachu was then unable to dodge Lucario's speedy attacks and got hit by several Bone Rushes and was then finished off by a powerful Power-Up Punch.
Pikachu battled Lucario again in The Aura Storm!, but this time against Lucario's Mega Evolved form. Mega Lucario used Bone Rush, but Pikachu managed to knock the bone away with Iron Tail. Pikachu then went for Quick Attack and managed to dodge a Power-Up Punch. Lucario, however, started to go out of control and chased after him before kicking him into a rock. Pikachu then went for Electro Ball, but it dodged it and now started to attack Pikachu aggressively, forcing Ash to protect Pikachu. As Lucario went to attack Ash and Pikachu, Gurkinn sent out his Lucario to block the attack. Lucario then lost its conscious and the battle was called off.
In Battling Into the Hall of Fame!, Pikachu was used in a Team Battle alongside with Serena's Fennekin and Clemont's Chespin against Tierno's Squirtle, Shauna's Bulbasaur, and Trevor's Charmander. Pikachu and the others were having a hard time due to their opponents great teamwork, which led to Fennekin being defeated by Squirtle. When Pikachu used Quick Attack, Squirtle used Rapid Spin to block and send Pikachu flying. He also took some damage from the embers from Charmander's Flame Burst and he and the others were then hit by Bulbasaur's Razor Leaf. Pikachu then jumped to dodge a Flamethrower, but was then targeted by Bulbasaur's Solar Beam. Much to Shauna and her friends's surprise, Chespin used Vine Whip to pull Pikachu up, giving Pikachu the perfect opportunity to defeat Charmander with Thunderbolt. When Squirtle used Rapid Spin, Chespin used Vine Whip to stop it, while Pikachu managed to defeat Bulbasaur with Electro Ball. After avoiding Squirtle's Aqua Tail, Pikachu also defeated it with Thunderbolt giving Ash, Serena and Clemont the win and the spot on the Hall of Fame.
In Showdown at the Shalour Gym!, Pikachu was the last Pokémon Ash used during his Shalour Gym battle with Korrina, sending him out to face Korrina's Mega Lucario. Ash was convinced that Korrina wasn't the only one who trained, both Pokémon stared off as this was going to be the final battle. Pikachu used Quick Attack and combined it with Electro Ball, launching a fast Electro Ball, but this was deflected by Bone Rush. Pikachu's Iron Tail was blocked and Lucario kicked him into the air. While in mid-air, Pikachu hit Lucario with Thunderbolt, but it immediately countered with Aura Sphere, knocking him to the ground. Pikachu was able to get to up and showed his strength by unleashing his electricity. Lucario then used Metal Sound, which Pikachu drowned out using his Thunderbolt hitting Lucario as well. Then Lucario used Aura Sphere, but Pikachu used Iron Tail to bounce off it and jump, similar to the Draco Meteor Climb. Lucario jumped towards Pikachu and used Bone Rush, but Pikachu countered with Iron Tail. While both Pokémon were clashing with their attacks, they both crashed down on the ground. Both Pokémon, however, were still standing. Lucario's Power-Up Punch was then countered with Iron Tail, and its Aura Sphere then collided with Pikachu's Electro Ball. Pikachu was able to recover first from the collision and struck Lucario with Thunderbolt, finally defeating the Aura Pokémon, thus giving Ash the victory and earning him the Rumble Badge. As the group prepared to depart for Coumarine City, Pikachu and Lucario bumped fists as a promise to battle again someday.
In A Slippery Encounter!, Pikachu helped out a Goomy, after they were stolen by Team Rocket. Knowing that his Thunderbolt wouldn't break their cage, Pikachu kept ramming it and managed to bend the bars. While Goomy managed to escape, Pikachu couldn't fit through until Goomy used its slime on its body to make him slip right through the bars. After getting out, they both ran off until they were noticed by Team Rocket, who gave chase. When Pikachu and Goomy were about to be hit by Jessie's Pumpkaboo's Shadow Ball, Ash arrived with Fletchinder to protect them. When Team Rocket were about to capture Pikachu again, Ash told him to use Iron Tail, destroying the cage. While battling their foes, Pikachu used Electro Ball, countering Pumpkaboo's Shadow Ball. Then Inkay used Psybeam, which managed to confuse Pikachu and Fletchinder, causing them to attack each other instead. As they were about to be finished off by Pumpkaboo and Inkay's Dark Pulse and Psybeam, Goomy shielded them with its body and used Bide to attack Team Rocket's Pokémon. As the confusion wore off, Ash had Pikachu finish Team Rocket off with Thunderbolt. Later, Pikachu informed to Ash that Goomy wanted to go with them, allowing him to capture it.
In Good Friends, Great Training!, Pikachu alongside Sliggoo was used in a Double Battle against Tierno's Wartortle and Raichu. Before the battle could start, he was grabbed by a mecha created by Team Rocket, but Sliggoo was able to save Pikachu with Dragon Breath. After the mecha took Sliggoo, along with Wartortle and Raichu, Pikachu split up with Ash and Serena to look for them. After Sliggoo evolved into Goodra to save Ash and Pikachu, they restarted their battle. Pikachu hit Wartortle with Quick Attack and then quickly backed off to avoid a Rapid Spin. While Goodra was charging its Bide, Raichu fired a Focus Blast at it. Pikachu tried blocking the attack with Electro Ball, but got hit by Wartortle's Rapid Spin. Goodra, however, withstood the attack and fired off its Bide. Wartortle tried countering with Hydro Pump, but Pikachu blocked the attack with Iron Tail, causing Bide to hit its mark. Pikachu then countered Raichu's Focus Blast with Electro Ball to protect Goodra and after Goodra managed to daze both Pokémon by throwing Wartortle into Raichu, Pikachu and Goodra defeated them with a Thunderbolt and Dragon Pulse combo.
In The Moment of Lumiose Truth!, Ash used Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his Lumiose Gym Battle against Clemont and went up against his Bunnelby. Pikachu used Thunderbolt, which was blocked by Bunnelby, who used his ears to create a mud shield. Bunnelby then used Dig, which was too fast for Pikachu to evade. Pikachu hit Bunnelby with Quick Attack, which Bunnelby quickly recovered from and managed to hit Pikachu several times with Double Slap. Pikachu then used Iron Tail which the Digging Pokémon caught with his ears. This reminded Bonnie of their first battle. Instead of letting Pikachu counter with Electro Ball, Bunnelby used his new move, Wild Charge, dealing major damage to Pikachu. Bunnelby then hit Pikachu with another Dig. He then responded with Quick Attack, but Bunnelby used Dig again. However, Ash had Pikachu use Iron Tail on the ground, forcing Bunnelby to emerge and dealing major damage. Pikachu then used another Iron Tail, defeating Bunnelby. When Clemont sent out Heliolisk, Ash recalled Pikachu. He was later sent out to battle Clemont's last Pokémon, Luxray. Pikachu could take advantage of Luxray's Electric Terrain, which increased the power of Electric-type moves. Pikachu first used Thunderbolt, which was blocked by Luxray's Thunder Fang. He then used Wild Charge on Pikachu, dealing a lot of damage. Luxray followed up with Swift, but Pikachu was able to deflect it back to Luxray with Iron Tail. However, the Gleam Eyes Pokémon countered with Wild Charge, defeating Pikachu.
In Rivals: Today and Tomorrow!, Ash used Pikachu as his first Pokémon in his three-round battle against Sawyer. He went up against Bagon, although he had a type-disadvantage. Pikachu's speedy Quick Attack was able to outmaneuver Bagon's Headbutt. After Thunderbolt and Dragon Breath collided in a draw, Pikachu jumped into the air and prepared to use Iron Tail. Sawyer had Bagon use Dragon Claw, but it was overpowered by Iron Tail and Pikachu knocked the Rock Head Pokémon out.
In A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!, Pikachu, along with Ash and his friends, visited the Poké Ball Factory. There, they were tricked by Team Rocket, who separated the group from their Poké Balls, with only Pikachu managing to escape. During a battle against his enemies, Pikachu avoided being recalled into his Poké Ball and hid in one of the vent shafts without them knowing. He then first tried to free Ash and his friends with Iron Tail, but when that failed and Team Rocket discovered him, Pikachu attempted to get the briefcase that held the group's Poké Balls. Meowth then chased after Pikachu, being the only one small enough to squeeze through the factory equipment and ventilation shafts that Pikachu escaped through, and continuously attempted to recall Pikachu into his Poké Ball. In the end, the Team Rocket trio attempted to escape with all the Poké Balls they stole, though in the process of doing so, they saw Ash and Pikachu were after them. Pikachu managed to stop their van with his Thunderbolt and Meowth challenged Pikachu to a one-on-one battle, which he accepted. Pikachu managed to defeat his foe despite the Scratch Cat Pokémon attempting to use Pikachu's Poké Ball on him. After Team Rocket got blasted off again, the group was invited by the grateful factory staff to a genuine tour of the factory.
In Tag Team Battle Inspiration!, Pikachu was used in a Tag Battle against Serena's Eevee and Shauna's Ivysaur with Tierno's Blastoise as his partner. Pikachu started the battle by firing an Electro Ball, which was countered by Ivysaur's Energy Ball. Then Pikachu used Thunderbolt on Eevee, but Ivysaur protected Eevee by using Razor Leaf. While Blastoise was struggling with Eevee, Pikachu scored a hit on Ivysaur with Iron Tail. Ivysaur retaliated with Vine Whip, but Pikachu dodged it. The battle was later called off by Serena. Ash and Tierno then decided to battle against each other and Pikachu faced Blastoise. A collision between Thunderbolt and Hydro Pump took place, but the outcome of the battle remains unknown.
In All Eyes on the Future!, while he wasn't chosen for Ash's Double Battle with Olympia, Pikachu did help Ash keep track of when the Future Sight from Olympia's two Meowstic would strike by using his tail as a makeshift timer. This eventually allowed Frogadier and Talonflame to turn the attack against them, and ultimately win the battle.
In Dream a Little Dream from Me!, after the gang viewed the Litleonid meteor shower, Pikachu got pulled into Squishy's dream by a Darkrai. In the dream, the group's Pokémon were either in their evolved or pre-evolved form and could speak human language, while humans spoke like Pokémon. Freaked out by this, Pikachu fled and ran into Meowth, who had also been pulled into the dream. Pikachu and Meowth then encountered a talking Squishy. Suddenly a flaming ghost appeared, who attacked them. They eventually managed to escape from it and Squishy then revealed a glimpse of its true strength to Pikachu and Meowth. Pikachu and Meowth tried to help Squishy getting to its home so it could gain this strength. On their way they got attacked by the flaming ghost again and Pikachu decided to battle it. Pikachu's attacks, however, couldn't land, but he was soon aided by the group's Pokémon and together managed to defeat the creature. In the end, Pikachu, Meowth and Squishy were woken by Clemont's invention.
In Party Dancecapades!, Pikachu partnered up with Miette's Slurpuff in a dance party hosted by Monsieur Pierre. Later, Pikachu was used in a Tag Battle along with Serena's Eevee, where he faced James's Inkay and Miette's Slurpuff. Pikachu scored a direct hit on Slurpuff with Quick Attack, who then quickly recovered and fired off an Energy Ball. Pikachu, however, got saved by Eevee's Swift and after dodging a Psybeam from Inkay, he hit the Revolving Pokémon with Iron Tail. Pikachu and Eevee were then forced to jump in order to avoid another Psybeam, but got trapped after landing in Slurpuff's Cotton Spore. Unable to escape, Pikachu and Eevee were vulnerable to Inkay's Psybeam and got hit hard. Pikachu then stepped in and got hit by Inkay's Tackle meant for Eevee. Later, while Eevee struggled to get up, Pikachu continued to battle using Electro Ball and then blocked Slurpuff's Energy Ball with Thunderbolt. After Eevee's Evolution into Sylveon, Sylveon managed to defeat both Inkay and Slurpuff with Fairy Wind, giving Ash and Serena the win.
In A Meeting of Two Journeys!, Pikachu was Ash's second Pokémon used in another three round battle against Sawyer, where he faced Sawyer's Honedge. Pikachu used Iron Tail to counter Honedge's Fury Cutter and then defeated it with a Thunderbolt.
In Seeing the Forest for the Trees!, Pikachu was very worried as Ash had left into the Winding Woods alone, and spent most of the episode trying to find Ash. Eventually, Team Rocket tried to catch Pikachu but when Pikachu tried to fend them off, they were actually underwhelmed by his power, implying that without Ash's friendship motivating him Pikachu was not able to perform as strong as usual. After Ash returned at the end of the episode, an overjoyed Pikachu was able to quickly send Team Rocket blasting off.
In the next episode, he participated in Ash's rematch against Wulfric and faced his Bergmite. Bergmite was able to move at a high speed by skating on the icy battlefield, allowing it to dodge an incoming Electro Ball. After jumping in the air to avoid Bergmite, Pikachu was hit by its Icy Wind, numbing his legs, slowing him down. As a result, Bergmite was able to easily dodge his Quick Attack, but was then hit from behind by a Thunderbolt. Bergmite then used Sharpen, encasing it in a diamond-shaped block of ice. It then rushed forwards using Rapid Spin, hurling Pikachu into an ice stalactite. Ash then had Pikachu run around to get rid of the numbness in his legs. Now having regained his Speed, Pikachu was able to knock Bergmite over with Quick Attack and hit it with Iron Tail, breaking through the block of ice and defeating it. Next, Pikachu faced Wulfric's Avalugg. He immediately scored a hit with Thunderbolt, but Avalugg withstood the attack and retaliated with an extra powerful Avalanche. Avalugg then went after Pikachu using Gyro Ball, but Pikachu created a hole in the battlefield with Iron Tail, causing Avalugg to get caught in it, stopping its movements. Avalugg, however, was able to use Stone Edge while spinning and despite Pikachu's attempt to destroy the rocks with Thunderbolt, he was hit hard and got knocked out.
Pikachu was used in the semi-finals of the Lumiose Conference in Analysis Versus Passion!, where Ash chose him as his third Pokémon in his battle against Sawyer. He was sent out against Sawyer's powerful Clawitzer. Pikachu used the forest battle field to his advantage by climbing into the trees and jump from branch to branch in order to confuse Clawitzer. Despite this, Clawitzer was still able to dodge his Thunderbolt and Quick Attack by launching itself in the air. After dodging an Ice Beam, Pikachu launched an Electro Ball which collided with Clawitzer's Dragon Pulse. Clawitzer then chased after him with Aqua Jet, but Pikachu was able lose it in the forest, allowing him to attack with a surprise Iron Tail. Clawitzer, however, reacted in time and was able to grab Pikachu's tail with its pincer and prepared to launch a Water Pulse. Ash then had Pikachu use Electro Ball to break free from Clawitzer's grip and finish the Howitzer Pokémon off with Thunderbolt. Pikachu then faced Sawyer's next Pokémon, his Aegislash. Pikachu tried to use the forest again, but Aegislash prevented him from doing so by chopping down the trees using Sacred Sword. Continuing their battle, Pikachu attacked with Iron Tail, but Aegislash protected itself from the attack with King's Shield, which also lowered Pikachu's Attack. He was then unable to keep up with Aegislash's fast moves and was hit twice by powerful Sacred Sword attacks. Pikachu then tried attacking with Thunderbolt, but Aegislash once again used King's Shield to protect itself. Ash then noticed that Aegislash had to attach itself to its shield in order to use King's Shield. Using this knowledge, he had Pikachu use Iron Tail on the ground, which caused the chopped down logs to fly up in the air. Pikachu then used its great speed to jump on the logs, confusing Aegislash and avoiding its attacks. As Aegislash tried going for King's Shield again, Pikachu knocked one of the wooden chunks between Aegislash's shield, making it unable to defend itself properly. With his opponent left vulnerable, Pikachu used Thunderbolt to defeat Aegislash. As Sawyer had lost three of his Pokémon the battlefield was changed and Ash decided to recall Pikachu. He was later used again to face Sawyer's Sceptile. Pikachu started off with a Quick Attack, but Sceptile countered with Leaf Storm, throwing him in the air. He, however, was able to break through the leaves and strike Sceptile with Thunderbolt. After a clash between Iron Tail and Leaf Blade, Pikachu was unable to dodge Sceptile's Frenzy Plant and was knocked out.
In Finals Not for the Faint-Hearted!, Pikachu was used as Ash's first Pokémon in the finals of the Conference against Alain. He went up against Alain's Tyranitar, who summoned a sandstorm upon entering the battlefield due to its Sand Stream Ability which deteriorated Pikachu's sight. Despite this, Pikachu was able to avoid a Dark Pulse. Ash then had Pikachu slam its tail into the field's water stream with Iron Tail to splash the water in the air which cancelled out the sandstorm as well as wetted Tyranitar. This allowed Pikachu to strike Tyranitar with Thunderbolt, dealing major damage due to Tyranitar's wet body. Pikachu then went for Electro Ball, but Tyranitar blocked the attack with Stone Edge and then proceeded to slam the stone pillars with its tail to send multiple stone shards flying at Pikachu. Pikachu, however, deflected all of the shards with Iron Tail and then used the attack once again to counter Tyranitar's Crunch. Tyranitar, however, threw Pikachu in the air, but he was able to launch an Electro Ball in mid-air which defeated Tyranitar. Pikachu was then recalled. He was later used again to face Alain's Metagross. Pikachu started off with Thunderbolt, but Metagross used Agility to dodge the attack and corner Pikachu. Due to this, Pikachu was hit hard by powerful Metal Claw, Rock Slide and Meteor Mash attacks. As Metagross charged another Meteor Mash to finish him off, Pikachu was able to obstruct it with Electro Ball, allowing him to jump on top Metagross. Now he was able to continuously use Thunderbolt, dealing serious damage to the Iron Leg Pokémon. Metagross was eventually able to shake Pikachu off, throwing him in the air, but Pikachu headed downwards and dealt a decisive hit with Iron Tail, knocking Metagross out. Pikachu then faced Alain's strongest Pokémon, Charizard. Pikachu managed to hit Charizard with a speedy Quick Attack, followed up by a super effective Thunderbolt. The battle continued in Down to the Fiery Finish!, where Pikachu once again hit Charizard with Thunderbolt. Afterwards Ash ordered him to use Quick Attack, but he was too exhausted to use the attack and ended up getting hit by Charizard's Flamethrower. When Charizard repeated its attack, Pikachu used Iron Tail on the ground to create a shield of dirt to block it. He then used Iron Tail again to intercept Charizard's Dragon Claw, but was overpowered and got knocked out.
In A Towering Takeover!, he and Ash went with Alain to go look for Mairin, but once they found her they were obstructed by the giant roots. They were then ambushed by Celosia before her Drapion's Confuse Ray hit them and knocked Ash unconscious. Pikachu attempted to protect his Trainer but eventually fell to the Confuse Ray's effects as well and passed out. Pikachu, along with Ash and his other Pokémon, was then taken captive by Lysandre on the top of Prism Tower. He could only watch in horror while Ash and Greninja were hit by Team Flare's miniature version of the Mega Evolution energy weapon, until Ash and Greninja freed themselves using Bond Phenomenon, in the following episode. Alain's Charizard broke him and the other Pokémon free with Dragon Claw, leaving everyone to battle Lysandre's Pyroar and Shiny Mega Gyarados together. During the battle, Pikachu and Goodra combined their Thunderbolt and Dragon Pulse to defend against Pyroar and Gyarados's Incinerate. After Hawlucha was able to hit Pyroar with a super-effective Karate Chop, Pikachu manages to defeat the Royal Pokémon with Thunderbolt. Continuing the battle, Pikachu and Noivern fired off their Thunderbolt and Boomburst which were countered by Gyarados's Hyper Beam. Pikachu was then targeted by a Dragon Tail, but Noivern pushed him aside, taking the attack in his place which knocked Noivern out. In the end, Pikachu, Greninja and Charizard were the only ones left facing Lysandre's Gyarados, although now aided by Malva's Mega Houndoom. The battle finally concluded in Rocking Kalos Defenses!, where Pikachu hit Gyarados with Quick Attack after avoiding its Hyper Beam and then finished it off with a Thunderbolt.
Pikachu later helped Serena's Braixen, Steven's Metagross and Professor Sycamore's Garchomp fight against the Giant Rock. He, along with the other Pokémon, was eventually subdued by the creature's roots, but was freed by a combined attack from the Pokémon of all the Gym Leaders of Kalos and Diantha. After strategizing, in Forming a More Perfect Union!, everyone combined their powers to fend off the Giant Rock's roots, allowing Ash and Alain to reach its center and save Chespie, bringing the creature down. After the resurrection of the Giant Rock, who was now controlled by Lysandre, Pikachu, Greninja and Alain's Charizard managed to destroy Lysandre's control device, allowing Squishy and Z2 to destroy the Giant Rock. In the next episode, Pikachu and the rest of Ash's Pokémon received medals from Professor Sycamore for their heroic efforts against Team Flare.
In The First Day of the Rest of Your Life!, Ash used Pikachu in a battle against Serena and her Braixen. At first, Pikachu had the upper hand as he was able to hit Braixen with a speedy Quick Attack and break through her defenses with Iron Tail before hitting her with a second one. After dodging a Flamethrower, he clashed with Braixen's Scratch using his Iron Tail, knocking both Pokémon back. Braixen was then able to use Fire Blast, successfully hitting Pikachu. The battle was then called off by Ash.
In Till We Compete Again!, Pikachu had to say goodbye to Serena, Clemont, Bonnie, and their Pokémon, since he and Ash would soon return to Kanto. While everyone said their goodbyes, Dedenne ran off since he didn't want the group to split apart. Using his electricity, Pikachu and the group were able to find Dedenne and calm it down. After Serena had departed, Pikachu participated in one final battle between Ash and Clemont, in which he faced Clemont's Bunnelby, just like in their first batttle. During the battle, both Pokémon's moves proved to be equal in power, but the end result of the battle was left unknown. Ash and Pikachu then separated from Clemont and Bonnie, and finally arrived in Pallet Town.
Sun & Moon series
Pikachu joined Ash and Delia on a vacation to the Alola region in Alola to New Adventure!. On their way to the Pokémon School on Melemele Island, Pikachu and Ash followed a wild Grubbin into a forest, where the two noticed a Trainer riding a Charizard. They followed him and arrived at the Pokémon School, where they met some of the school's students as well as Professor Kukui and Professor Oak's cousin, Samson Oak. Ash later used Pikachu to battle a trio of Team Skull Grunts, who were harassing Kiawe, and their trio of Zubat, Salandit, and Yungoos. Pikachu was able to dodge their Salandit's attacks with ease and seriously damage them with Quick Attack and Thunderbolt. Kiawe then had his Turtonator use the Z-Move Inferno Overdrive which knocked Team Skull's Pokémon out in one shot. That evening, Pikachu and Ash followed Tapu Koko, the guardian deity of Melemele Island, who handed Ash a Z-Ring and an Electrium Z. Pikachu remained in Alola with Ash, when he decided to study at the Pokémon School.
In the next episode, Ash's classmates had a surprise welcome party for him, where he and Pikachu participated in several challenges. During their lunch break, Tapu Koko appeared again and stole Ash's hat, prompting Ash and his classmates to follow it. Arriving in a forest, Tapu Koko challenged Ash to a Pokémon battle. Pikachu was overwhelmed by Tapu Koko's fast moves and despite Electric Terrain being created by Tapu Koko's Ability Electric Surge, Pikachu's Thunderbolt didn't faze it. Tapu Koko then tapped Ash's Z-Ring, activating it and allowing Pikachu to perform Gigavolt Havoc, which destroyed a large part of the area but also caused Ash's Electrium Z to shatter. Afterwards, Tapu Koko flew off again.
In To Top a Totem!, Pikachu was used in Ash's first island challenge trial in Verdant Cavern. Alongside Rowlet, he first fought a Yungoos and Gumshoos. The two Normal-types showed to be tough opponents, as they were able to use Sand Attack to obstruct Pikachu and Rowlet's sight and movements before hitting them with their attacks. Ash then came up a similar tactic using Rowlet's Leafage, allowing Pikachu to knock Gumshoos out with Iron Tail, while Rowlet defeated Yungoos. Afterwards, Pikachu and Rowlet had to face a Totem Gumshoos. This Gumshoos proved to be extremely powerful, being able to endure Pikachu's Thunderbolt and knock him to the ground, after which it defeated Rowlet. After his Electro Ball got redirected by Sand Attack, Pikachu was hit hard once again. Pikachu then used Gumshoos's Sand Attack against it by hiding in the sand while using Quick Attack, allowing him confuse and repeatedly attack Gumshoos before finishing it off with a Thunderbolt. This win earned Ash a Normalium Z.
Pikachu was used as Ash's final Pokémon in his battle against Hala during the Melemele Island grand trial in Trial and Tribulation!. He faced Hala's Hariyama, who was able to block his attacks using its big hands and hit him afterwards. While repeatedly getting hit by Hariyama's Arm Thrust, Pikachu eventually managed to slip past Hariyama and strike it with Thunderbolt. Hariyama, however, was not fazed by this attack and proceeded to use Belly Drum, maximizing its Attack but also halving its health. Pikachu then used Quick Attack in an attempt to dodge Hariyama's Z-Move All-Out Pummeling, but was ultimately hit by the attack. After getting up, Pikachu circled around Hariyama using Quick Attack and managed to knock it off its feet using Iron Tail. Ash used this opportunity to have Pikachu perform Breakneck Blitz, which sent Hariyama flying and knocked it out. Having cleared the Melemele Island grand trial, Ash was rewarded a new Electrium Z.
In A Guardian Rematch!, Ash and Pikachu trained for a rematch against Tapu Koko. The next day, the two were greeted by Tapu Koko again, who challenged them for another battle. Unlike in their last battle, Pikachu managed get a few hits on the guardian deity, but was eventually struck by its powerful attacks. Ash and Pikachu showed their improvements by performing Gigavolt Havoc, which was this time powerful enough to sent Tapu Koko flying. A clash between Pikachu and Tapu Koko, however, blasted the former off a cliff, prompting Ash to jump after him. The two were saved in time by Tapu Koko, who flew off afterwards.
In The Ol' Raise and Switch!, Professor Kukui tasked everyone with switching their partner Pokémon with somebody else and Pikachu was given to Lillie whilst Snowy went to Ash. Because of her fear of Pokémon, Lillie decided to have a battle with Hobbes and his Oricorio to help conquer her fear where despite her lack of battle experience, Lillie was able to defeat Oricorio and was able to touch Pikachu. Ash then proposed a battle against Lillie and Pikachu, to show them how strong he and Snowy had gotten together.
Personality and characteristics


Pikachu in a bad mood
After Ash gained Pikachu's loyalty in Pokémon - I Choose You!, Pikachu became extremely loyal to Ash and has maintained this loyalty, and while he is not always immediately trusting of strangers, he is generally friendly to humans and Pokémon alike. He acted as a guardian and big brother to Misty's Togepi, and has been seen mediating and even breaking up fights among other Pokémon, such as in Pikachu's Vacation. In Mewtwo Strikes Back, Pikachu, Meowth, and Meowth's clone were the only Pokémon not to participate in the giant battle; Pikachu stood motionless as his clone repeatedly slapped his face. Contrary to his distrusting nature, Pikachu took a liking to Misty very early in the series, and he has retained this liking of Misty throughout the series, such as when he was very happy to see her in The Scheme Team.

Pikachu and his love of ketchup
It was revealed that Pikachu also loves drinking orange juice, most likely of its sourness in The Fires Of A Red-Hot Reunion.
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has an article related to this subject:
Personality & Development: Ash's Pikachu
During the Hoenn saga, Pikachu temporarily developed amnesia and sided with Team Rocket for a while. On several occasions, Pikachu has developed an "electric flu" causing him to become overcharged and extremely powerful. During these instances, Pikachu will sometimes accidentally let off electric outbursts which can be set off on anyone, including Ash. In all of these cases, Pikachu did not mean harm upon anyone.
As shown in a handful of episodes, the first being Showdown at Dark City, Pikachu has a special fondness for ketchup, but he will eat and enjoy almost any other human or Pokémon food. A running joke in the anime also seems to be Pikachu using Thunderbolt at the beginning of each series to destroy a female companion's bike or shock the companion herself. This has happened to Misty, May, Dawn, Iris, and Bonnie.
Pikachu, like his Trainer, is always happy to battle. He often tries his very best, but when he loses, he doesn't complain or feel bad about himself, especially when Ash reassures him. Ash and Pikachu are almost identical personality-wise, and thus are the perfect match for one another. Most others agree, with the exception of Burgundy, who in A Connoisseur's Revenge! said that Ash had a terrible relationship with all of his Pokémon, though this is more due to her inexperience in determining such relationships.
In general, Pikachu as a species is not particularly powerful, but Ash's Pikachu is an anomaly, overcoming odds in battle numerous times. In Pokémon Emergency!, Meowth remarked that Pikachu's power "far exceeds its evolutionary level". In Showdown in Pewter City, he defeated Brock's Onix with an Electric-type attack that triggered the sprinkler system causing Onix to be drenched in water, one of its weaknesses. Ash's Pikachu has also defeated very powerful Pokémon that Ash's other Pokémon were unable to, such as Dragonite, Metagross and Mega Lucario. He was also the second of Ash's Pokémon to defeat a legendary Pokémon in battle, defeating Brandon's Regice to win the Brave Symbol. He later fought Tobias's Latios to a draw in the semi-finals of the Lily of the Valley Conference. He has helped Ash win countless battles and Gym and League matches.
The possibility of evolving into Raichu was first raised in the episode Electric Shock Showdown. After suffering a crushing defeat by Lt. Surge's Raichu, Nurse Joy presented Ash with a Thunder Stone. Ash allowed Pikachu to decide, but it smacked the stone away with his tail, choosing to become stronger as it is, and defeated Raichu using its superior speed. In the Sinnoh region, Pikachu battled a Raichu belonging to a trainer named Sho. The two were evenly matched, until Raichu used Hyper Beam to secure victory, a move Pikachu could not learn. At a Pokémon Center, Ash revealed that he kept the Thunder Stone he acquired in Vermilion City in case Pikachu changed his mind about evolving. Once again, Pikachu chose not to evolve, and defeated Sho's Raichu in a rematch with a combination of speed and spinning techniques learned from Dawn. In the interim, Team Rocket stole the Thunder Stone, as they also liked Pikachu to stay as he is.
However, at times, Pikachu has lived up to his species' frail and brittle strengths, particularly in Gym battles where he was defeated with relative ease by his opponent; for example, he was overpowered very easily by Lt. Surge's Raichu, Sabrina's Kadabra, Blaine's Magmar, Bugsy's Scyther, Whitney's Miltank, Chuck's Poliwrath, Roark's Rampardos, Fantina's Drifblim, Cress's Panpour, and Viola's Surskit, despite having a type advantage with Panpour, Scyther, Poliwrath, Drifblim, and Surskit. He also drew against Winona's Pelipper and Norman's Vigoroth, and struggled against Crasher Wake's Floatzel. Furthermore, he has lost twice to Trip's Serperior, as a Snivy in In the Shadow of Zekrom! and a Servine in A Rival Battle for Club Champ!, despite Trip being a starting Trainer and recently having obtained Serperior. In addition, Pikachu tends to struggle when his mobility is hindered, such as when the aforementioned Panpour weakened Volt Tackle with Mud Sport, or when his legs were numbed by Wulfric's Bergmite and its Icy Wind, preventing him from using Quick Attack.
Pikachu became the second non-legendary Pokémon to defeat a legendary Pokémon in the anime after Charizard, beating Brandon's Regice in Pace - The Final Frontier!, giving Ash his final Frontier Symbol.
Pikachu is also the only one of Ash's Pokémon to accompany him to the Hoenn, Unova, Kalos, and Alola regions, and was intended to be the only Pokémon to accompany him to Sinnoh before Aipom was discovered to have stowed away on the ship Ash was taking. Up until the capture of Dawn's Pachirisu, Pikachu was the only Electric-type Pokémon in the anime owned by a main character.
Pikachu is always becoming a constant target whenever he gets captured by Team Rocket. Sometimes they succeed with nets, cages, capsules or different devices, but most of the time their plans always failed by Ash and his friends or something else. Whenever Pikachu gets released from their trap and reunites with Ash, he sends Team Rocket blasting off with his Electric attacks. Most of time in this case, his Thunderbolt. Sometimes, Pikachu sends them away even when he didn't get stolen. On other occasions, he battles them with Ash.
Even with his high level of electrical power, Pikachu has not stopped learning new attacks. Upon learning that Roxanne, the Rustboro Gym Leader used Rock types, Ash had Pikachu begin learning Iron Tail in All Things Bright and Beautifly!. After training hard, Pikachu finally perfected it in The Winner by a Nosepass, where he used it to defeat Roxanne's Nosepass and earn Ash his first Hoenn Badge. In addition to giving Pikachu an advantage over Rock types, Iron Tail has allowed Pikachu to defeat many powerful opponents. In May's Egg-Cellent Adventure, during a battle with Team Rocket, Ash ordered Pikachu to do a Quick Attack. Much to the surprise of Ash and his friends, the Quick Attack morphed into Volt Tackle which sent Team Rocket blasting off. Until Dancing With the Ducklett Trio!, it has been one of Pikachu's signature moves, in which Pikachu replaced it with Electro Ball, which it learned while battling a trio of annoying Ducklett. Not only that, Pikachu has used his Ability, Static, a few times in the anime.
Pikachu's imitations
Pikachu has demonstrated a great talent for mimicking Pokémon, altering the look of his physical features to match another Pokémon's appearance. He will occasionally use this talent to specify what Pokémon or person he is talking about. These imitation skills were notably put to use during the Pokémon Dress-Up Contest, where Pikachu was able to thrill the audience without the need for a costume or make-up.

Brock imitation from Snow Way Out!


Squirtle imitation from Kanga Games


Bulbasaur imitation from Bulbasaur's Mysterious Garden


Ash imitation from The Stun Spore Detour


Psyduck imitation from Stantler's Little Helpers

Lickitung imitation from Stantler's Little Helpers


Noctowl imitation from The Screen Actor's Guilt


Cyndaquil imitation from The Screen Actor's Guilt


Totodile imitation from The Screen Actor's Guilt


Seviper imitation from Gotta Dance!

Cacnea imitation from Gotta Dance!


Meowth imitation from Gotta Dance!


Torchic imitation from Gotta Dance!


Mudkip imitation from Gotta Dance!


Treecko imitation from Gotta Dance!

Lotad imitation from Gotta Dance!


Corphish imitation from It's Still Rocket Roll to Me!


Grovyle imitation from It's Still Rocket Roll to Me!


Torkoal imitation from It's Still Rocket Roll to Me!


Wobbuffet imitation from All Dressed Up With Somewhere To Go!

Loudred imitation from All Dressed Up With Somewhere To Go!


Budew imitation from All Dressed Up With Somewhere To Go!


Turtwig imitation from Mass Hip-Po-Sis!


Heat Rotom imitation from Get Your Rotom Running!


Staraptor imitation from Dealing With a Fierce Double Ditto Drama!

Buneary imitation from Dealing With a Fierce Double Ditto Drama!


Scolipede imitation from The Bloom Is on Axew!


Azumarill imitation from The Pirates of Decolore!


Axew imitation from Team Rocket's Shocking Recruit!


Sharpedo imitation from Alola to New Adventure!
Pikachu's language
Some of Pikachu's speech is consistent enough that it seems that some phrases actually mean something. (In Stealing The Conversation!, Team Rocket refers to this language as "PikaSpeak," but this most likely isn't official.) For instance, Pikachu always uses "Pikapi" when referring to Ash (notice that it sounds somewhat similar to "Satoshi"). Other speech includes:
Pi-Kachu: Pochama (Piplup)
Pikachu-Pi: Kasumi (Misty)
Pika-Chu: Takeshi (Brock), Kibago (Axew)
Pikaka: Hikari (Dawn)
PiPiPi: Togepy (Togepi)
PikakaPika: Fushigidane (Bulbasaur)
PikaPika: Zenigame (Squirtle), Mukuhawk (Staraptor), Goukazaru (Infernape) Gamagaru (Palpitoad) or Marilli (Azumarill)
PiPi-kachu: Rocket-dan (Team Rocket)
Pi-Pikachu: Get da ze! (He says this after Ash wins a Badge, catches a new Pokémon or anything similar.)
Pikachu may not be the only one to use this phrase, as other Pokémon do this as well. For example, when Iris caught Emolga, Axew said Ax-Axew (Ki-Kibago in the Japanese). This also happened when Iris caught Gible in SS028.
Pika-Pikachu: When referring to or introducing himself.
Chaa: Anything he says happily or excitedly, or when yawning.
Pika!: "Matte!", or saying "Wait!"
Pi-kaPika: "Sayōnara," or saying "Good-bye."
Moves used

Ash Pikachu Thunderbolt.png
Using Thunderbolt
Ash Pikachu Tackle.png
Using Tackle
Move	First Used In
Thunder Shock	Pokémon - I Choose You!
Thunderbolt †	Showdown in Pewter City
Agility	Electric Shock Showdown
Quick Attack †	Electric Shock Showdown
Thunder	Abra and the Psychic Showdown
Double-Edge	Friend and Foe Alike
Tackle ×	The Double Trouble Header
Leer ×	Hour of the Houndour
Iron Tail †	All Things Bright and Beautifly!
Volt Tackle	May's Egg-Cellent Adventure
Electro Ball †	Dancing With the Ducklett Trio!
An × shows that the move cannot be legitimately learned by this Pokémon in the games.
A † shows that the move was used recently, unless all moves fit this case or there are fewer than five known moves.
Z-Moves used
Picture	Z-Move	First Used in	Base Move
Ash Pikachu Gigavolt Havoc.png	Gigavolt Havoc	The Guardian's Challenge!	Thunderbolt or Electro Ball
Description: Pikachu strikes a series of synchronized poses with his Trainer to build Z-Power. He then gathers a large ball of electricity and launches it towards the target with a punch.
Ash Pikachu Breakneck Blitz.png	Breakneck Blitz	Trial and Tribulation!	Quick Attack
Description: Pikachu strikes a series of synchronized poses with its Trainer to build Z-Power. He then charges at the target with a full-speed tackle.
Moves improvised
Picture	First Used In	Moves Involved	Partnered With
Ash Pikachu Leer EP009.png	The School of Hard Knocks	Leer	None
Description: When Giselle called for Cubone to use Leer, Ash told Pikachu to "Leer right back" by making funny faces. He later used Leer in Hour of the Houndour; however, this was the actual move, albeit, an anime move error still.
Ash Pikachu Electric Slam.png	Electric Shock Showdown	None	None
Description: An attack where Pikachu stored electricity in his tail similar to Slam was used to defeat Lt. Surge's Raichu in Electric Shock Showdown. A similar move, referred to as "Shocking Tail" by the MC, was used to defeat Drake's Ditto in Hello, Pummelo!.
Ash Pikachu Rocket Punch.png	The Punchy Pokémon	None	None
Description: Was a move that Pikachu used while "boxing" Anthony's Hitmonchan in The Punchy Pokémon. Pikachu glowed red and shot off his boxing gloves, leaving off a trail of smoke. Once the smoke disappears, Pikachu still has his boxing gloves on and flies towards Hitmonchan at high speed.
Thunder Armor.png	Solid as a Solrock	Thunder	Ash's Swellow
Description: Pikachu is seen using Thunder on himself while riding on Swellow. This increased their attack power greatly and they easily overpowered Tate and Liza's Lunatone and Solrock.
Ash Pikachu contest.png	Once More With Reeling!	Quick Attack, Thunderbolt, and Iron Tail	None
Description: Pikachu uses Quick Attack and combines it with Thunderbolt, creating a large ring of electricity. Then Pikachu uses Iron Tail to divide the ring into three rings.
Ash Pikachu Spin.png	O'er the Rampardos We Watched!	None	None
Description: It was originally made by Dawn and first used by her Piplup and Buneary, was also used by Turtwig and Aipom to avoid attacks in the episode, where he was able beat Roark and obtain the Coal Badge.
Swift-Quick Attack combination.png	A Stand-Up Sit-Down!	Quick Attack and Swift	Ash's Aipom
Description: Aipom uses a twirling Swift that spins in the air and then Pikachu uses Quick Attack to jump in the Swift and as he runs, the Swift stars would be surrounding the white light from the Quick Attack.
Ash Pikachu Thunder Tackle.png	Enter Galactic!	Thunder and Volt Tackle	Paul's Electabuzz
Description: Is a move combination Pikachu used with Electabuzz. Pikachu starts by using Volt Tackle towards Paul's Electabuzz, who grabs him and uses Thunder on him to supercharge the Volt Tackle. This was used in to sever the cables with which Team Galactic's helicopters were carrying Veilstone City's meteorites.
Ash Pikachu Volt Tail.png	Pika and Goliath!	Volt Tackle and Iron Tail	None
Description: It was used against Sho's Raichu and once again in The Semi-Final Frontier! against Tobias's Latios.
Ash Pikachu Counter Shield.png	Shield with a Twist!	Thunderbolt	None
Description: Counter Shield was used in Shield With a Twist! and Evolving Strategies! Pikachu uses Thunderbolt while spinning, releasing yellow sparks everywhere, disallowing movement for the opponent. It is a means of defending and attacking at the same time.
Thunderbolt-Whirlpool.png	Arceus and the Jewel of Life	Thunderbolt and Whirlpool	Dawn's Piplup
Description: It was used during a battle against Kiko and Kato and later to battle against the evil Marcus. When using the move, Piplup uses Whirlpool while Pikachu fires a Thunderbolt, creating an electric whirlpool.
Hydro Volt Tackle.png	Memories are Made of Bliss!	Volt Tackle and Hydro Pump	Dawn's Piplup
Description: It was used as a finishing blow against Team Rocket. It is a combination of Pikachu's Volt Tackle and Dawn's Piplup's Hydro Pump to create a massive Electric-Water shot that sent Team Rocket blasting off.
Ash Pikachu Electro Bolt.png	Movie Time! Zorua in "The Legend of the Pokémon Knight"!	Electro Ball and Thunderbolt	None
Description: Ash has Pikachu use Electro Ball, then tells him to use Thunderbolt on it to significantly increase the size and power of Electro Ball.
Ash Pikachu Massive Electro Ball.png	Unova's Survival Crisis!	Electro Ball	None
Description: It is a stronger variation of Electro Ball. While blocking Thundurus's Thunder attack to protect Iris, Pikachu absorbed some of its opponent's electricity. Later, when Ash told Pikachu to use Electro Ball, it transferred Thundurus's excess energy into its attack, causing the Electro Ball to crackle with blue lightning and swell to incredibly massive proportions. This supercharged Electro Ball dealt great damage to the Abyssal Ruins after it was launched.
Ash Pikachu Electro Iron Tail.png	Mission: Defeat Your Rival!	Iron Tail and Electro Ball	None
Description: It's a move combination Pikachu used to defeat Trip's Serperior. First, Pikachu forms an Electro Ball on his tail, and then uses Iron Tail, slamming both the Electro Ball and Iron Tail into the opponent at the same time, dealing a notable amount of damage.
Ash Pikachu Draco Meteor Climb.png	Climbing the Walls!	Draco Meteor and Iron Tail	Grant's Tyrunt
Description: A countering method Ash improvised during his Gym battle with Grant. By using Iron Tail, Pikachu was able to jump on and avoid being hit by Grant's Tyrunt's Draco Meteor. This was based on Ash's counter method to Rock Tomb, called "Rock Tomb Climb".
Ash Pikachu Aura Sphere Climb.png	Showdown at the Shalour Gym!	Aura Sphere and Iron Tail	Korrina's Mega Lucario
Description: Similar to Draco Meteor Climb, it was used during Ash's Gym battle against Korrina. Pikachu used Iron Tail to counter Korrina's Mega Lucario's Aura Sphere.
Electrified Dragon Pulse.png	Good Friends, Great Training!	Thunderbolt and Dragon Pulse	Ash's Goodra
Description: When Pikachu uses Thunderbolt, Goodra uses Dragon Pulse and fuses with it, creating a purple dragon-shaped energy blast surrounded by electricity. Then the attack hits the opponent, causing serious damage.
Voice actors

Language	[hide] Voice actor
Japanese	大谷育江 Ikue Ohtani
English	Ikue Ohtani
Rachael Lillis*
German	Sabine Bohlmann (SE01)
Hindi	सोनल कौशल Sonal Kaushal (Hungama dub)

In the games

Main article: Red's Pikachu (game)
In the main series, Red's Pikachu is noticeably based on Ash's Pikachu: not only does Red receive it from Professor Oak after his rival, Oak's grandson, takes the last starter Pokémon in Pokémon Yellow, but it follows Red around rather than being kept in a Poké Ball. In Generation II and Pokémon HeartGold and SoulSilver, Pikachu is the highest-leveled member of Red's team when he is encountered at Mt. Silver, and the highest leveled Pokémon owned by a Trainer in the entire series excluding battle arenas. His moves, notably in HeartGold and SoulSilver, are the four moves most used by Ash's Pikachu at the time of the games' release. Pikachu was one of Ash's three Pokémon in Pokémon Puzzle League. The Pikachu in the Super Smash Bros. series may be based on Ash's Pikachu.
Event distributions
Diamond & Pearl Ash's Pikachu
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has multiple articles related to this subject:
Satoshi's Pikachu to be distributed via Wi-Fi
Toys 'R' Us to distribute Ash's Pikachu
A Japanese event distributed an in-game representation of Ash's Pikachu via Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection and at participating Japanese McDonald's locations which was held from July 15 through August 10, 2010. This Pikachu was distributed at participating American Toys 'R' Us locations from January 30 to February 13, 2011, and Canadian Toys 'R' Us locations from February 9 to February 20, 2011. This Pikachu's moveset was based on that of Ash's Pikachu during the Diamond & Pearl series.
Pokémon Info	Trainer Memo	Battle Moves	Ribbons
Cherish Ball PIKACHU	♂	Dex No.	025	Naughty nature.	Electric	Volt Tackle	Classic Ribbon
Lv. 50	Type	 	Steel	Iron Tail
Spr 4h 025 m.png		Electric	Pokémon Event	Normal	Quick Attack
OT	Ash	Apparently had a	Electric	Thunderbolt
ID No.	01301	fateful encounter at	This Pokémon was available in the United States and Canada
in 2011.
Item	Ability	Lv. 50.
Light Ball Light Ball	Static
The date this Pokémon was received is determined by the date on the DS when it was obtained from the Poké Mart.
Can be obtained with:		D	P	Pt	HG	SS
Obtained from:		PBR	Ranch	Ra	SoA	GS	Distribution
Pokémon Center Best Wishes Ash's Pikachu
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has multiple articles related to this subject:
Japanese Pokémon Center to distribute four Pokémon from Best Wishes series
More information on Japanese Best Wishes event Pokémon
From August 10 to September 6, 2013, Japanese Pokémon Centers distributed an in-game representation of Ash's Pikachu with its moveset based on the one known by Pikachu during the Best Wishes series. The distribution was split into four one-week periods; each week, players could receive one of four Best Wishes-themed Pokémon at random. The other three Pokémon distributed alongside Ash's Pikachu were Iris's Axew, Cilan's Pansage, and Professor Oak's Rotom.
Pokémon Info	Trainer Memo	Battle Moves	Ribbons
Cherish Ball ピカチュウ	♂	Dex No.	025	Brave nature.	Electric	Thunderbolt	Wishing Ribbon
Lv. 50	Type	 	Normal	Quick Attack
Spr 5b 025 m.png		Electric	Pokémon Cartoon	Steel	Iron Tail
OT	サトシ	Apparently had a	Electric	Electro Ball
ID No.	08103	fateful encounter at	This Pokémon was available in Japan
from August 10 to September 6, 2013.
Item	Ability	Lv. 50.
None None	Static
The date this Pokémon was received is determined by the date on the DS when the Wonder Card is received.
Can be obtained with:		B	W	B2	W2
7-Eleven Ash's Pikachu
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has an article related to this subject:
Four Pokémon to be distributed at Japanese 7-Eleven stores
From July 18 to 31, 2015, Japanese 7-Elevens distributed an in-game representation of Ash's Pikachu with its moveset based on the one known by Pikachu during the XY series. It, along with Serena's Pancham, were distributed as prizes in 7-Eleven's "Pokémon DS Rally". Once participants bring their Japanese-region Nintendo 3DS to one of the stores' 7Spots, and got their 3DS "stamped" through the Nintendo Zone feature, they can redeem the stamp for a serial code that would give the player one of the two anime Pokémon.
#025	Pikachu	♂
Cherish Ball	Level 50	025Pikachu.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	Light Ball Light Ball
ID:	00711
OT:	サトシ
Met:	a lovely place (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Naughty
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Electro Ball
Electric	Special
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
XYORAS	serial code	Japanese	online	July 18 to September 30, 2015
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the receiving system's date when the Wonder Card is received.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Pokémon Center Ash's Pikachu
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has an article related to this subject:
7-Eleven event Pokémon to also be available at Pokémon Center stores in Japan
Ash's Pikachu were distributed via the Nintendo Network at Pokémon Centers and Pokémon Stores across Japan from August 24 to 30, 2015.
#025	Pikachu	♂
Cherish Ball	Level 50	025Pikachu.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	Light Ball Light Ball
ID:	08245
OT:	サトシ
Met:	a lovely place (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Naughty
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Electro Ball
Electric	Special
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
XYORAS	Nintendo Network	Japanese	online	August 24 to 30, 2015
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the receiving system's date when the Wonder Card is received.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Pikachu in a cap

Event artwork
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has an article related to this subject:
Cap Pikachu, Pikashunium Z to be available in Japan
Bulbanews
Bulbanews has an article related to this subject:
I Choose You Cap Pikachu to appear in Ultra Sun, Ultra Moon
These cap-wearing Pikachu are event-exclusive Pokémon that debuted in Pokémon Sun and Moon, and are being distributed in celebration of the Pokémon anime's 20th movie, and by extension, the anime's 20th anniversary. Like Ash's Pikachu, these Pikachu are always male and cannot evolve. They also have access to the exclusive Z-Crystal, Pikashunium Z, and its Z-Move, 10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt.
In Japan, the Pikachu will be distributed via single-use serial code to those who pre-order tickets to the 20th movie, with one code per ticket. The Pikachu received depends on the date the player redeems the code. The codes only work on Japanese region games. The first time the player uses one of these serial codes, they will also receive a complimentary Pikashunium Z.
A seventh Cap Pikachu, wearing the hat Ash wears in the twentieth movie, will debut in Pokémon Ultra Sun and Ultra Moon. In Japan, it will be distributed via QR Code on a special Pokémon Ga-Olé disc.
Original Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Original.png
 Electric 	Hoenn Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Hoenn.png
 Electric 	Sinnoh Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Sinnoh.png
 Electric 	Unova Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Unova.png
 Electric 	Kalos Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Kalos.png
 Electric 	Alola Cap
Pikachu
025Pikachu-Alola.png
 Electric 	I Choose You Cap
Pikachu
USUM Prerelease I Choose You Cap Pikachu.png
 Electric
Original Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the original series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the original series debuting in the first year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the original series being the first Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the original series, April 1, 1997.
#025	Pikachu
Original Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 1	025Pikachu-Original.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	970401
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Thunder
Electric	Special
Agility
Psychic	Status
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	April 15 to May 1, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	July 19 to 31, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Hoenn Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the Advanced Generation series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the debut of the Advanced Generation series being during the sixth year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the Advanced Generation series being the sixth Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the Advanced Generation series, November 21, 2002.
#025	Pikachu
Hoenn Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 6	025Pikachu-Hoenn.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	021121
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Thunder
Electric	Special
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	May 3 to 15, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	August 2 to 14, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Sinnoh Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the Diamond & Pearl series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the debut of the Diamond & Pearl series being during the tenth year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the Diamond & Pearl series being the tenth Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the Diamond & Pearl series, September 28, 2006.
#025	Pikachu
Sinnoh Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 10	025Pikachu-Sinnoh.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	060928
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Volt Tackle
Electric	Physical
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	May 17 to 29, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	August 16 to 28, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Unova Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the Best Wishes series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the debut of the Best Wishes series being during the 14th year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the Best Wishes series being the 14th Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the Best Wishes series, September 23, 2010.
#025	Pikachu
Unova Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 14	025Pikachu-Unova.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	100923
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Volt Tackle
Electric	Physical
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	May 31 to June 12, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	August 30 to September 11, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Kalos Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the XY series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the debut of the XY series being during the 17th year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the XY series being the 17th Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the XY series, October 17, 2013.
#025	Pikachu
Kalos Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 17	025Pikachu-Kalos.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	131017
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Electro Ball
Electric	Special
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	June 14 to 26, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	September 13 to 25, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
Alola Cap
This special Pikachu is based on Ash's Pikachu during the Sun & Moon series. The level of Pikachu corresponds to both the debut of the Sun & Moon series being during the 20th year of the Pokémon anime and the first movie in the Sun & Moon series being the 20th Pokémon movie overall. The Trainer ID number is based on the original air date of the first episode in the Sun & Moon series, November 17, 2016.
#025	Pikachu
Alola Cap	♂
Poké Ball	Level 20	025Pikachu-Alola.png
Type:
Electric
Ability:	Static
Held item:	None
ID:	161117
OT:	サトシ
Met:	2017 Pokémon Movie (fateful encounter)
Nature:	Hardy
Ribbon:	Wishing Ribbon Wishing Ribbon
Thunderbolt
Electric	Special
Quick Attack
Normal	Physical
Iron Tail
Steel	Physical
Electro Ball
Electric	Special
Games	Method	Region	Location	Duration
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	June 28 to July 17, 2017
SM	serial code	Japanese	online	September 27 to October 9, 2017
Moves in bold can be taught again at the Move Reminder as a special move if forgotten.
Date received is the date on the system when the gift is picked up from the deliveryman.
This Pokémon is set to the same language as the game that received it.
In the manga

In the Ash & Pikachu manga

Ash's Pikachu in the Ash & Pikachu manga
Ash's Pikachu is a starring character in the Ash & Pikachu manga series, which is based on the Johto and Hoenn seasons of the Pokémon anime. Like in the anime, Pikachu and Ash share a strong friendship.
Moves used
Ash Pikachu Volt Tackle AP.png
Using Volt Tackle
Ash Pikachu Tackle AP.png
Using Tackle
Move	First Used In
Thunderbolt †	Hoppip, the Wind Calls!
Swift	The Beginning Of Good Luck?! Pokémon Fortune Telling
Thunder	The Grand Rhydon Plan
Quick Attack †	One Half Of A Poké Ball
Tackle ×	One Half Of A Poké Ball
Iron Tail †	Trust In Each Other!!
Volt Tackle †	A 'Thank You' That Transcends Time
An × shows that the move cannot be legitimately learned by this Pokémon in the games.
A † shows that the move was used recently, unless all moves fit this case or there are fewer than five known moves.
In The Electric Tale of Pikachu manga
Main article: Ash's Pikachu (EToP)

Ash's Pikachu in The Electric Tale of Pikachu
Ash's Pikachu is a starring character in the manga series The Electric Tale of Pikachu, which is loosely based on the Pokémon anime. Pikachu was Ash's first Pokémon. However, Ash did not receive Pikachu from Professor Oak - instead, he finds Pikachu under the floorboards of his home, chewing on wires to eat the electricity.
In the Magical Pokémon Journey manga

Ash's Pikachu in Magical Pokémon Journey
Ash's Pikachu, along with Ash, Misty and Brock, makes a cameo appearance in the bonus chapters at the end of every volume of the Magical Pokémon Journey manga series. In the bonus chapters, Ash and friends have mistakenly wandered into the Magical Pokémon Journey world and are trying to return to the world of the anime, encountering many unusual situations along the way, including encounters of aspects of the Magical Pokémon Journey canon which are different in anime canon.
Ash's Pikachu shows a video to Pikachu of him bouncing a Poké Ball on his head in One Hundred Fifty-One.
In the Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl manga

Ash's Pikachu in Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl
Ash's Pikachu appears as a main character in the Pocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl manga, which is based on the Diamond & Pearl series of the anime.
Moves used
Ash Pikachu Thunderbolt PDP.png
Using Thunderbolt
Move	First Used In
Quick Attack	PDP03
Thunderbolt	PDP04
Volt Tackle	PDP07
Iron Tail	PDP12
A † shows that the move was used recently, unless all moves fit this case or there are fewer than five known moves.
In the movie adaptations

Ash's Pikachu in the movie 10 manga adaptation
As Ash and Pikachu have appeared in every Pokémon movie to date, Pikachu is a main character in every Pokémon movie manga adaptation.
Moves used
Manga versions
Ash Pikachu Electro Ball M14 manga.png
Using Electro Ball in
White—Victini and Zekrom
Move	First Used In
Thunderbolt	Emperor of the Crystal Tower: Entei
Thunderbolt	Jirachi: Wish Maker
Thunderbolt	Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea
Volt Tackle	Pokémon Ranger and the Temple of the Sea
Thunderbolt	The Rise of Darkrai
Volt Tackle	The Rise of Darkrai
Thunderbolt	Giratina and the Sky Warrior
Thunderbolt	Arceus and the Jewel of Life
Quick Attack	Arceus and the Jewel of Life
Thunderbolt	White—Victini and Zekrom
Iron Tail	White—Victini and Zekrom
Electro Ball	White—Victini and Zekrom
Thunderbolt	Diancie and the Cocoon of Destruction
Thunderbolt	Hoopa and the Clash of Ages
A † shows that the move was used recently, unless all moves fit this case or there are fewer than five known moves.
Z-Moves used
Picture	Z-Move	First Used in	Base Move
Ash Pikachu 10000000 Volt Thunderbolt M20 manga.png	10,000,000 Volt Thunderbolt	Pocket Monsters the Movie: I Choose You!	Unknown
Description: Pikachu strikes a series of synchronized poses with his Trainer to build Z-Power. He then releases several beams of electricity at the opponent.
Ani-Manga versions
Ash Pikachu Thunderbolt M11 animanga.png
Using Thunderbolt
Move	First Used In
Thunderbolt	Giratina and the Sky Warrior
A † shows that the move was used recently, unless all moves fit this case or there are fewer than five known moves.
In the TCG

Ash's Pikachu is featured in the Pokémon Trading Card Game . The following is a list of related cards.
Ash's Pikachu
Cards listed with a blue background are only legal to use in the current Expanded format.
Cards listed with a silver background are legal to use in both the current Standard and Expanded formats.
Card	Type	English
Expansion	Rarity	#	Japanese
Expansion	Rarity	#
Pichu and Pikachu (CoroCoro promo)	Lightning	 	 	 	Unnumbered Promotional cards
Pikachu Pokémon M	Lightning	 	 	 	Movie Commemoration Random Pack	 	012/022
Pikachu Pokémon M LV.X	Lightning	 	 	 	DPt-P Promotional cards	 	043/DPt-P
Ash's Pikachu GX	Lightning	 	 	 	Ash vs Team Rocket Deck Kit	 	005/026
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	071/SM-P
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	072/SM-P
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	073/SM-P
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	074/SM-P
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	075/SM-P
Ash's Pikachu	Lightning	 	 	 	SM-P Promotional cards	 	076/SM-P


Pikachu also appears in the card Togedemaru (Ash vs Team Rocket Deck 6) and Tauros (Ash vs Team Rocket Deck 14).
In Tretta

Main article: Pikachu (05-01)
In Pokémon Tretta, Ash and his Pikachu appear as a Master-class Tretta in the Invasion! Mega Rayquaza expansion. When Pikachu is in play, he appears wearing Ash's hat from the XY series.
Trivia


Pikachu surfing

Pikachu disguised as a female
Pikachu is Ash's only Electric-type Pokémon and was the only Electric-type owned by a main character in the anime until the capture of Pachirisu by Dawn.
For DP013, Professor Oak's Big Pokémon Encyclopedia is about Ash's Pikachu. He writes this Pokémon senryū about him: パートナー　サトシとピカチュウ　いいかんじ Partners Satoshi and Pikachu: a pleasant feeling.
Pikachu was the first of Ash's Pokémon to habitually disobey him. Other Pokémon that would do so, and are better remembered for their disobedience than Pikachu, are Primeape and Charizard.
Pikachu is the second Pokémon in the entire anime series to have managed to defeat a Legendary Pokémon, which he did by defeating Brandon's Regice in Pace - The Final Frontier!.
Pikachu is also the only Pokémon in the entire series that has been able to defeat two Legendary Pokémon, being able to take out Brandon's Regice in Pace - The Final Frontier! and Tobias's Latios in The Semi-Final Frontier!, although in the latter case, it was a draw, as Pikachu knocked himself out in the process.
In Where No Togepi Has Gone Before!, it was officially confirmed that Pikachu is male, as a female Togepi's Attract affected him. His physical appearance could not be used as proof, since gender differences were not implemented until after he had debuted in the anime.
Pikachu's gender had already been assumed male in the dub, where male pronouns such as "he" were used to refer to Pikachu. To a lesser extent, his gender was also previously implied in the Japanese versions, specifically in Island of the Giant Pokémon (where he used masculine pronouns), Princess vs. Princess (Pikachu was shown when the narrator said that males had to carry packages), Riddle Me This (as Pikachu was seen in the male section of the hot springs at the Cinnabar Gym), and in The Battle of the Badge, where Brock referred to Ash and Pikachu as being "those guys" when touched by their loyalty.
The first time Pikachu's gender difference was pointed out was in Beauties Battling for Pride and Prestige!, where Pikachu was disguised as a female by sticking a heart-shaped piece of paper on his tail.
Pikachu is the only Pokémon of Ash's to be used in every Gym battle in a region.
In Latin America, Cartoon Network has a "Biografía Toon" (Toon Biography) segment, which consists of biographies and histories of cartoon characters. This segment has done a two-part feature on Ash's Pikachu. According to the segment, Pikachu is the result of an experiment conducted by Professor Oak and allegedly destroyed the lab where he was created in a momentary loss of control.
An Elite Coverup! has been the only time when Ash does not use Pikachu against an Elite Four member.
Pikachu is the first evolved Pokémon Ash obtained, although at the time Ash obtained Pikachu, he did not yet have a pre-evolved form.
Pikachu is Ash's only Pokémon capable of evolving by use of an evolutionary stone, not counting Snorunt who could not evolve through use of an evolution stone at the time of its capture and normal evolution.
Pikachu is the first Pokémon in the anime to defeat a Mega Evolved Pokémon without Mega Evolving, defeating Korrina's Mega Lucario in Showdown at the Shalour Gym!.
As Pikachu hates being in his Poké Ball, it is rarely ever seen, with a known total of only five confirmed appearances throughout the whole series (flashbacks not included). These being in Pokémon - I Choose You!, Showdown in Pewter City, A Corphish Out of Water!, Breaking Titles at the Chateau!, and A Frenzied Factory Fiasco!.
Related articles

For more information on this Pokémon's species, see Pikachu.
Episodes focusing on Pikachu
Images on the Bulbagarden Archives
References

Jump up ↑ Confirmed in Where No Togepi Has Gone Before!.

Ash's Pokémon
On hand:
025	Pikachu
722	Rowlet
???	Lycanroc
725	Litten
Travelling with:
479Px	Rotom
[show]

Anime characters
Protagonists	Ash Ketchum • Pikachu • Misty • Togetic • Brock • Tracey Sketchit • May • Max • Dawn • Piplup • Iris • Axew • Cilan • Serena • Clemont • Bonnie • Dedenne • Lana • Kiawe • Lillie • Sophocles • Mallow • Rotom Pokédex
Rivals	Gary • Ritchie • Harrison • Drew • Harley • Morrison • Tyson • Solidad • Paul • Zoey • Nando • Kenny • Conway • Barry • Ursula • Tobias • Trip • Bianca • Burgundy • Stephan • Georgia • Cameron • Virgil • Alain • Aria • Miette • Tierno • Shauna • Trevor • Nini • Sawyer
Antagonists	Jessie • James • Meowth • Wobbuffet • Giovanni • Butch • Cassidy • Dr. Namba • Matori • Pierce • Dr. Zager • Shelly • Archie • Tabitha • Maxie • Hunter J • Saturn • Mars • Jupiter • Cyrus • Charon • Colress • Aldith • Ghetsis • Barret • Lysandre • Xerosic • Celosia • Bryony • Mable • Aliana • Tupp • Zipp • Rapp
Professors	Professor Oak • Professor Ivy • Professor Elm • Professor Birch • Professor Rowan • Professor Carolina • Professor Juniper • Cedric Juniper • Dr. Fennel • Professor Sycamore • Professor Kukui
Relatives	Delia Ketchum • Flint • Lola • Forrest • Brock's siblings • Daisy • Violet • Lily • James's parents • Nanny and Pop-Pop • Norman • Caroline • Johanna • Chili • Cress • Grace • Meyer • Lana's mother • Harper and Sarah • Lusamine • Gladion • Rango • Sima • Mimo • Kiawe's grandfather • Abe • Mallow's brother • Sophocles's parents
Supporting	Officer Jenny • Nurse Joy • Magikarp salesman • Todd Snap • Charles Goodshow • Casey • Liza • Sakura • Lance • Steven • Mr. Sukizo • Raoul Contesta • Vivian Meridian • Robert • Scott • Lilian Meridian • Marian • Rhonda • Cynthia • Reggie • Angie • Looker • Lyra • Khoury • Don George • Alder • Luke • Freddy O'Martian • Ingo • Emmet • Jervis • N • Anthea and Concordia • Porter • Alexa • Sophie • Cosette • Clembot • Sanpei • Mairin • Diantha • Gurkinn • Monsieur Pierre • Palermo • Keanan • Malva • Squishy • Z2 • Samson Oak • Hobbes • Gym Leaders • Elite Four • Frontier Brains • Island Kahunas • Many temporary characters

Ash & Pikachu characters
Main characters
Ash Ketchum • Pikachu • Misty • Togepi • Brock • May • Max • Jessie • James • Meowth
Rivals
Gary Oak • Drew • Morrison
Gym Leaders and Frontier Brains
Whitney • Clair • Roxanne • Norman • Noland • Greta • Lucy
Other
Anna • Azusa • Professor Birch • Calista • Caroline • Professor Cozmo • Drake • Eriko
Eriko's grandmother • Mrs. Grimm • Hiroto • Jack Pollockson • Kiyo • Lily • Professor Oak
Oliver • Robert • Shelly • Solana • Tabitha • Team Rocket Scientist • Timmy
Whitney's grandmother • Winstrate family

The Electric Tale of Pikachu characters
Main characters
Ash Ketchum • Pikachu • Gary Oak • Ritchie • May Oak • Professor Oak • Delia Ketchum • Jessie • James • Meowth
Gym Leaders
Brock • Misty • Koga • Sabrina • Giovanni • Rudy • Drake
Other
A.J. • Aya • Bill • Damian • Dario • Duplica • Eevee brothers • Giselle • Jeanette Fisher • Officer Jenny • Joe • Nurse Joy
Lara Laramie • Mahri • Melanie • Mikey • Mimi • Professor Orville • Potter • Florinda Showers • Ruby • Samurai • Tommy

Project Anime logo.png	This article is part of Project Anime, a Bulbapedia project that covers all aspects of the Pokémon anime.
Pokémon news from Bulbanews
Sep 4 Further details released on Germany, Spain's regional competitions: Regionals in...
Sep 3 New Super Mystery Dungeon update available: Meowth Theater support ends...
Sep 3 Indigo League to be released on Blu-ray in North America: To be released Novembe...
Sep 2 Ultra Sun, Ultra Moon bundles announced for UK, Australia: 2DS XL bundle announc...
Sep 2 Ultra Sun, Ultra Moon Pokédex guidebook announced: To be released December 12...
Read more on Bulbanews, your community Pokémon newspaper

Pokemon Switch
Pokemon Ultra Moon
Pokemon Ultra Sun
Categories: Articles needing improvementAnime charactersAsh's PokémonOak's PokémonAsh and Pikachu charactersAnime starter PokémonPocket Monsters Diamond & Pearl charactersPokémon with anime move errorsPokémon with manga move errors

Sun & Moon Guides & Walkthroughs >>
Sun & Moon Pokédex >>
Sun & Moon Movies & Abilities >>
Sun & Moon Items>>
Sun & Moon Tools>>
List of Pokémon by National Pokédex number>>
Bulbapedia is part of BulbaGarden
Bulbagarden logo.png
Home
BMGf bulb.png
Forums
Bulbapedia bulb.png
Bulbapedia
Bulbagarden Archives bulb.png
Archives
Bulbanews bulb.png
Bulbanews
Handbooks bulb.png
Handbook
IRC bulb.png
Discord
Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 Powered by MediaWiki
